---
title: San Francisco
description: My company sent me on a trip to San Francisco
---

## Introduction

My job is sending me to San Francisco for training. While this doesn't
sound like a big deal to some, I haven't done a lot of traveling. Just
take a look my Google Maps data since graduating college.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/well-traveled.jpg">
    <img alt="sf well traveled" src="/images/sf/well-traveled.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>This
aerial view would make you think I'm a nomad that lives along I-90.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I haven't been on an airplane in probably a decade. I've never
traveled alone. I really have no idea how airports or other cities
work. For your amusement, I've decided to document my trip as I go,
focusing on my mistakes and confusion.

## Sunday 5:50 PM, - O'Hare Airport

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/ohare-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf ohare workstation" src="/images/sf/ohare-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I departed this afternoon from Madison's only airport. It was quaint,
and just about everything the air travel experience should be. Even
the fellow that makes you remove your belt and shoes under threat of a
baton beating was no more authoritative than they should be.

When I arrived at the gate, we soon were shepherded to an airplane
that was so small, it looked like it was cut out of a museum exhibit
meant to teach kids about airplanes. It was a proper metal cigar tube
with wings.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/cigar-tube-with-wings.jpg">
    <img alt="sf cigar tube with wings" src="/images/sf/cigar-tube-with-wings.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>My brave steed, apparently.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

But after buckling into my prime window seat, we were asked to
leave. The pilot called the delay a "VIP movement". Apparently there
was somebody traveling through O'Hare airport who was so important
that all other planes needed to wait until he was done. The unenthused
stewardist clarified that it was President Barack Obama.

"Thanks Obama!" I whispered. Nobody acknowledged my joke. Perhaps it
was too "on the nose".

After milling around in the airport for another hour, we were told to
board in the same fashion. Pavement, stairs, window seat, seat belts,
and finally lift off.

The flight was comically quick. We were only in the air for
twenty-seven minutes. I swear I've made the same drive in only two
hours. During the flight, we were assured that since the delay
affected all flights in an out of Chicago, any connecting flights were
likely still viable. That was good news, but I figured I had better
just treat it like it was still the same time printed on my ticket.

O'Hare, in contrast to the Dane County regional airport, is a war
zone. People were practically stabbing each other for AC
outlets. Parents shoving Mcdonalds cheeseburgers into their kids'
mouths. Additionally, navigating this airport was considerably more
complicated. My target gate number looked like a foot note out of an
obscure academic journal. I followed its promise through a churning
sea of angry, weary people.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/ohare-the-zoo.jpg">
    <img alt="sf ohare the zoo" src="/images/sf/ohare-the-zoo.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Just look at these savages...</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

To my horror, arriving at gate H-11-A I beheld the great walkway
retracting. Despite what I had been assured, my connecting flight hat
not been delayed. It was still taking off at 5:00 PM, and I had
arrived at 5:10 PM.

As I waddled over to the desk, relinquishing my wife's blue polka
dotted bag to the ground, a furious bald man stepped in line in front
of me. Veins swelled around his temples. He had that "I'm about to
make a scene" look about him.

"We need to be on that plane!" He yelled and pointed his big muscular
arm at the attendant.

"Sir, we closed the gate ten minutes ago. The walkway has already been
retracted. That's not possible."

"Well get us on another flight!" he hollared. His laser-guided trimmed
goatee seemed to bristle. The attendant yammered at a keyboard. I knew
what the answer would be before she said it.

"There are no more seats on that flight, sir." The man clenched his
fists. His female companion, clad in glossy exercise clothes rolled up
behind her. She read his frustration and joined in the beratement.

"I don't see how it's our fault that Obama delayed our flight! That's
not fair."

"Thanks, Obama" I whispered again. They did not acknowledge my joke. I
pulled out my phone and stared at my lock-screen.

"Look! We're doctors! We NEED to be in San Francisco tomorrow because
we have patients to treat! Are you guys going to treat our patients
instead?"

My thoughts drifted. I imagined walking into a doctor's office being
greeted by an American Airline's employee. "Good morning. Your
doctor's flight was delayed, so the airline sent me to check your
prostate."

"Honey," yelled baldy. "They don't give a RAT'S ASS about us." The two
stormed away. I sauntered up to the counter after them.

"Hi… I think I have the same problem as that angry guy." The attendant
smirked as I continued, handing her my ticket. "I was supposed to be
on that connecting flight." She proceeded to work on the computer.

Wanting to capitalize on our rapport, I added "…and I'm not a doctor,
so feel free to take your time." The woman started laughing.

"Don't worry about it - you were put on the next flight out. Your
plane leaves in two hours." My mouth dropped in amazement. "And feel
free to tell that angry guy that you got the last seat."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/last-ticket.jpg">
    <img alt="sf last ticket" src="/images/sf/last-ticket.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I would have traded it for free surgery. Maybe he could
surgically make my upper body look stronger...</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Which brings me here - Dear Reader. Hunched over a wobbly table for
one, charging my phone at a sticky power outlet that I may or may not
have stabbed somebody for. And I can't help but feel lucky. Now if
you'll excuse me, I need to get to gate `H-EE-V-31.2 article
4b. (iii)`. Hopefully sometime tonight I'll be somewhere in San
Francisco - unless Obama manages to screw that up too. Thanks, Obama.

## Sunday 9:46 PM, 30,000 ft. above the United States

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/midflight-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf midflight workstation" src="/images/sf/midflight-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I get the impression that people who fly are supposed to appear
disinterested. I'm doing my best to fit in, but it's all just so
exciting. I'm attentive to everything mumbled over the airport
loudspeaker. I smirk as the plane lurches forward like a spaceship on
the runway. My face is practically pressed on the glass when the plane
banks, revealing a wildly new perspective of the familiar Chicago
skyline.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/madison-skyline.jpg">
    <img alt="sf madison skyline" src="/images/sf/madison-skyline.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Or the familiar Madison skyline - if it even qualifies as a
"skyline". The lakes look so tiny from up here.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I finally get to ride in a plane big enough for me to stand in - not
that I'll be doing much standing. The plane is 100% booked. I kept an
eye out for the angry doctor duo from earlier. Part of me feels guilty
for taking what could have been their seat. Part of me wonders if I
have any blood on my hands. Let's hope for the sake of my conscience
that they were just plastic surgeons and they were late for a tattoo
removal or something.

Everything on an airplane seems a lot tinier than I remember. I feel
like I've been making T-rex arms for the past three hours. I could get
a little more room if I tipped my seat back, but we've been in the air
for at least an hour and I feel like that would be totally unfair to
the guy behind me. Everybody knows that if you don't change your seat
within the first five seconds of sitting down, you really can't change
it at all. It's a binding social contract. The guy behind probably has
his heart set on keeping the extra 1.5 inches of leg room.

Correction. He has a neck-pillow. Everybody knows that if you use a
neck pillow in public, most social contracts don't apply to you. Sorry
buddy.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/booked-flight.jpg">
    <img alt="sf booked flight" src="/images/sf/booked-flight.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Nothing but the sound of polite snoring and shifting neck
pillows.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I'm going to pretend to sleep now. On the outside, I'll be a cool,
disinterested air traveler. On the inside, I'm just a little kid
pretending he's on a spaceship barreling towards Mars.

## Monday 7:51 AM, Equator Coffee Shop, Market St.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/coffee-shop-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf coffee shop workstation" src="/images/sf/coffee-shop-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Well against all odds, I made it. Sorry I don't have any pictures of
my digs yet. I rolled into the hotel at what was biologically 2AM,
threw my stuff on the ground, and just sort of collapsed. Five hours
later, I my phone stirred me from my coma and I realized I didn't have
any toothpaste. I also realized I don't know where anything is.

I mimed several fake phone calls while I did my best to look like I
was intentionally walking in zig zags. I already have a good
navigation tip for you all: Market Street is the really big road with
all the signs that say "Market Street". Sometimes you have to put down
Google Maps and just use what little self awareness you have at your
disposal.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/market-street.jpg">
    <img alt="sf market street" src="/images/sf/market-street.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Is this market street?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/real-market-street.jpg">
    <img alt="sf real market street" src="/images/sf/real-market-street.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Oh - this must be market street.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I have about an hour until work starts. I'm going to use it to catch
up on emails and sponge my dried out brain with this delicious hipster
fair-trade organic coffee.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/into-the-fog.jpg">
    <img alt="sf into the fog" src="/images/sf/into-the-fog.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

## Monday 9:30 AM, Zendesk HQ

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/zendesk-station.jpg">
    <img alt="sf zendesk station" src="/images/sf/zendesk-station.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I met up with coworker Dave and we wandered around the city a bit,
then we finally made our way to the office. It's right next to a Chai
shop, so the dizzying smell of gingerbread and spices follows you
everywhere. I'm already accustomed to the Zendesk style, but as you
would expect, they go all out for their Headquarters.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/zen-1.jpg">
    <img alt="sf zen 1" src="/images/sf/zen-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/zen-2.jpg">
    <img alt="sf zen 2" src="/images/sf/zen-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/zen-3.jpg">
    <img alt="sf zen 3" src="/images/sf/zen-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Toothpaste, deodorant, granola, and coffee are starting to make me
feel human again.

## Monday 8:19 PM, Hotel Abri

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/hotel-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf hotel workstation" src="/images/sf/hotel-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Today was a marathon.I really haven't stopped moving all day.It was
incredible getting to spend so much time with probably some of the
brightest people in IT I've ever met, but maintaining that level of
focus was exhausting.

In need of healing, I staggered over to Katayana Ramen - a boisterous
hole in the wall three blocks north of my hotel.I could hear their
dubsteb playing from across the street.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/katayana-outside.jpg">
    <img alt="sf katayana outside" src="/images/sf/katayana-outside.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I ordered a bowl of ramen.The waitress brought me a new reason to
leave my hotel this week.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/katayana-ramen.jpg">
    <img alt="sf katayana ramen" src="/images/sf/katayana-ramen.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>If
this bowl of ramen were one of the Black Eyed Peas, it would be
Fergie.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

This bowl of food may have changed my life.

So here I am in my hotel again.I can't move.I see my running shoes in
the corner.  What a fool I was when I packed those!  The idea of
running right now is equally hilarious and nauseating.

## Tuesday 8:46 PM, Somewhere in Chinatown

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/chinatown-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf chinatown workstation" src="/images/sf/chinatown-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Due to my shyness, I dread every minute I spend outside my hotel room.
I'm tempted to spend all night poking around the Internet and falling
asleep under a bag of sunflower seeds.

The food is the only thing that gets me to step outside at night.I
quickly discovered that carefully planning meals and routes with
Google maps is not the way to experience the city.The information
isn't fresh, and most of the reviews are overly cynical.

Today, I downloaded a compass app onto my watch and ventured out into
the crisp night in search of Chinatown.  I slipped into the first
restaurant that smelled like fish.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/chinatown.jpg">
    <img alt="sf chinatown" src="/images/sf/chinatown.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Chinatown</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I don't remember the name of the place, but I can tell you that the
fish that ended up in my stir-fry was staring back at me through an
aquarium minutes before.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/fishtank.jpg">
    <img alt="sf fishtank" src="/images/sf/fishtank.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Hi - my name is Alex, and I'll be your apex predator
today...</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

My fortune cookie reads, "The evening promises romantic
interests". Since my wife isn't around, I don't see that coming true -
unless we're still talking about food.

The city is different.Nobody carries my favorite beer.The streets are
steep.I can't seem to find my hotel room on the first try.But there is
delicious food out there, and that is worth the adventure.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/seafood-bowl.jpg">
    <img alt="sf seafood bowl" src="/images/sf/seafood-bowl.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Romance, indeed</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Thursday 8:01 AM, Zendesk HQ

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/feather-workstation.jpg">
    <img alt="sf feather workstation" src="/images/sf/feather-workstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

There is a magical room at the end of the 2nd floor of the Zendesk
building called "Feather".Besides the comfy couches and video game
themed pillows, the entire wall facing the street is glass.With all
the interesting characters that stumble down market street, this room
is people watching paradise.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/people-watching.jpg">
    <img alt="sf people watching" src="/images/sf/people-watching.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Don't worry, I'm not pretending to work.I got here a few minutes early
to catch up on the old blog.

Yesterday, Nick treated me and Dave to Vietnamese food.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/vietnamese-food.jpg">
    <img alt="sf vietnamese food" src="/images/sf/vietnamese-food.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

That cup of bright orange liquid is not some kind of pumpkin spiced
latte.  It's a Thai iced tea which was laced with enough caffeine to
restart somebody's heart.

After work I set out for the North East side once again in search of
The Ramen Underground.  It's not very flashy, but I could tell my the
number of people waiting in line that I was onto something good. I
penned my name on a little whiteboard hanging on the window, then
waited outside for twenty minutes before I was led to a tiny seat at
the bar.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/ramen-underground.jpg">
    <img alt="sf ramen underground" src="/images/sf/ramen-underground.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I ordered the house sake.  The waitress brought me a shot glass in a
tiny wooden box, then overflowed the glass, letting the precious sake
I had purchased spill out.I panicked, and asked the family's slack
channel for advice.

> I have a cultural emergency.  I just ordered sake at a Ramen shop,
> and they put the little shot glass in a wooden box and made it
> overflow.  Am I allowed to drink what's in the box, or will I look
> like an idiot?

My wife did some research, and explained that this was the traditional
way to pour sake.  It is a reflection on the restaurant's generosity.
And they were generous. 

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/ramen-underground-food.jpg">
    <img alt="sf ramen underground food" src="/images/sf/ramen-underground-food.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

After dinner, I walked to the pier to burn off some calories.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/golden-gate.jpg">
    <img alt="sf golden gate" src="/images/sf/golden-gate.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/port-of-sanfran.jpg">
    <img alt="sf port of sanfran" src="/images/sf/port-of-sanfran.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

San Francisco has been generous, and has left my cup overflowing. 

## Saturday 3:23 AM, 30,000 ft. above the United States

Was I supposed to be home in Wisconsin about six hours ago?
Absolutely.  What am I still doing in a plane?  I'll use that as my
cliffhanger.

Thursday was great.  Dave and I had the last of our training sessions,
then ate lunch at a taco booth.  Then after work, I met the one and
only Drew Hannay at my hotel for some rascally fun in the city.

I pictured Drew being a cool San Francisco local that was ready to
whisk me away to a magical underground sushi restaurant, or show me
where the Twitter employees held their fight club.  But Drew knew San
Francisco about as well as I did.  His compass was more accurate than
mine, so at least he was kind of useful.

Drew and I plunked into another random Chinese restaurant and spent
the meal reminiscing about our college days.  He reminded me of a
funny story.  Around the time of our Freshman year, Google released
Chrome and, being the fanboy he was, Drew was trying to get everyone
in his dorm to adopt it.  I was resistant to change, since I barely
knew how to use my computer and I didn't know how to migrate my Safari
bookmarks to anything else.

Drew found many creative ways to get Chrome in my dock, but I always
managed to delete it.  Finally, he had checkmate when he installed
chrome and used OSX wizardry to give it the same icon as my beloved
Safari.  I don't even think I realized it right away.  I guess the
real punchline is that six years later, we're both Software Engineers
and we're chatting in a bar in the bay area.

I was touched that Drew drove all the way up from San Jose to eat
Chinese food and get lost in the Tenderloin with his old college
suite-mate.  He's the real deal.

Friday is where things got kind of disorienting.  I was awoken by an
automated call from American Airlines at 6 AM.  The robocaller
mercillesly informed me that my flight has been canceled, and I was to
fly out at midnight.  It's 3:45 AM right now, so by my watch, I have
about another six hours before I can see my family again.

Or who knows.  Maybe I'll get another mysterious robocall telling me
that my connecting flight is canceled too.  Maybe I'll have to live at
O'Hare permanently.

## Sunday 8:56 PM, Home

Finally home.  I walked in my front door yesterday around 11 AM, and
I've basically been asleep since.  To be honest, I don't even remember
being in O'Hare.  At some point, I took a picture of this sandwich,
thinking it was a joke or something.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/subway.jpg">
    <img alt="sf subway" src="/images/sf/subway.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

My little family met me at the baggage claim.My son looked twice as
big as he did only a week ago.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/family-greeting.jpg">
    <img alt="sf family greeting" src="/images/sf/family-greeting.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I think it's safe to say that traveling is out of my system.Two
connecting flights in twenty-four hours will do that to you, I guess.
Take a look at my map now!I worked hard to put that blip there on the
west coast.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sf/san-fran-map.png">
    <img alt="sf san fran map" src="/images/sf/san-fran-map.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>

