---
title: Full Metal Jacket
description: My wife and I review the movie Full Metal Jacket.
permalink: /full-metal-jacket.html
---

Marissa and I review the movie Full Metal Jacket, and we try not to
get all sad about it. No matter what goes down, we are hoping a whole
bunch of marines don’t show up at my place tomorrow to beat me with a
pillow case full of soap.

## Alex's Thoughts

I first saw the film Full Metal Jacket about a year ago. The movie is
sort of a lot to take in, so I was grateful for a second pass.

First of all, I’d like to say I am so grateful for anyone who serves
in the military. I couldn’t imagine making the kind of sacrifice you
do. Pointing this out up front is sort of necessary, because this film
casts a dark shadow on the way our country wages war.

There is a sharp crease in the middle of the movie - almost like
folding a thick piece of paper in half. The first half of the film is
pure American fun. The film opens with bushy-tailed marine recruits
standing in flawless formation within crisp, clean barracks. Though
the drill sergeant is cruel, you can’t help but laugh at some of the
insults he comes up with. You get a sense of the harshness of boot
camp, but without a departure from good ‘ol American fun.

The film focuses on a tubby, weak-willed recruit referred to as
‘Private Pile’ (as in, ‘pile of sh**’). He is eager to better himself,
but repeatedly falls victim to physical limitations and jelly donuts
hidden in his foot locker. But just as you would anticipate a
feel-good rally, the film diverges from this American dream. Private
Pile loses his mind, and he takes the life of his drill Sergeant as
well as his own.

This is where the other end of the crease starts. The rest of the film
follows a snarky military journalist through a bizarre string of
personal exhibitions and harsh combat. The film ends with a salty
platoon of marines chasing a lone Viet Cong sniper through the burning
refuse of a Vietnamese city, ultimately ending with the mercy killing
of the sniper - a little girl all along.

The movie is a serious critique of the American military. I
interpreted the movie as a contrast of cheery Americana perspective
folded over the dark reality of war.

Through a comparison of Private Pile with Private Joker, Kubrick makes
a poignant statement. It’s almost as if he is saying ‘If someone were
to really take our country’s propaganda seriously, this is what they
would have to be - a killing machine.’ Meanwhile, Kubrick expresses
through Private Joker that the only way this works is if the soldiers
enforce their own duality - playing along with the hollering and
singing while treasuring their own cynicism and doubt. Private Joker
even mentions this duality when an officer questions his ‘Born to
Kill’ inscription mere inches away from a peace sign pin on his
uniform.

So movie that begins with breast-beating patriotism ends with the
mercy killing of a child soldier - clearly progressing in the order of
most-American to least.

What do we do with this cynicism? Are we to do away with our military
all together? This should not be the case, but we should certainly be
open to questioning our country’s view of itself. Just as Private
joker joked, we should always we conscious of the duality of our
American identity. In one hand, we are proud, loud Americans that have
no fear. In the other, we are thinking, reasoning citizens of the
world that are deeply aware that nothing is as it seems.

If we fail to use our duality, we will find ourselves marching to the
beat of our own propaganda in the most absurd of circumstances, like
the closing scene of the film where the last of the platoon march
through the flames chanting the words to the Mickey Mouse theme.

Blimey - I need to cheer up. I think I need to hit the Seinfeld
reruns.

## Alex's Rating

Silly at first, crushing to the very end. All I know is that I
wouldn’t make it five minutes in the military.

9/10

## Marissa's Thoughts

Alex and I continued our Stanley Kubrick marathon tonight with the war
story classic Full Metal Jacket. After watching another Kubrick film,
I am extremely impressed with his ability to make seemingly
superficial movies contain a much deeper story. Full Metal Jacket
starts out with a number of boys heading to training camp for the
marines and it follows them through the struggles of preparing for the
Vietnam War. Eventually the story follows them to Vietnam and into
combat.

When the boys are at training camp there are two privates in
particular that the story emphasizes, a skinny smart-talker named the
Joker, and a bigger quieter soldier named Private Pile. Private Pile
constantly struggles to accomplish most of the tasks that the
demanding general asks of him. Joker then does his best to help
Private Pile catch up but his efforts are in vain. As the days go by
we start to see Private Pile almost drift off more and more off of the
training island and into his own little world. (WARNING: spoiler
alert….) Eventually his brush with insanity leads him to shooting his
general and then shooting himself. The story then almost immediately
switches to a setting in Vietnam. But in the final scene of the film
(another spoiler alert here) the Joker ends up shooting a vietnamese
sniper (who had just killed three of his friends) as she is begging to
be shot, wounded on the ground.

Acknowledging Kubricks’ intention of having some pretty deep lessons
in his films, I began thinking about what may have been hidden in Full
Metal Jacket. The first thing that struck my mind as a bit odd was the
seemingly random story of the general and Private Pile. After the
scene where they both die we don’t hear any reference to them
again. It seemed odd considering that probably half of the story’s
development revolved around these two characters and their tension
with one another. I then began to think about the amount of sympathy I
had after watching Private Pile spiral into his slightly insane
state. Even though I obviously did not agree with the decisions he
made, I pitied him since he had struggled to fit in and succeed. I
then identified that I had not had a similar feeling during all of the
line of fire shots in vietnam later in the film. So why did I feel
worse when two people died than when many people had died in war in
the movie? I think that it’s because I felt like the story had
provided a sufficient background around Private Pile that made me
understand how he got to the point where he did. This then made me
feel empathetic towards him. I once heard someone say that if two
people die it’s murder but if a thousand people die it’s just a
statistic. I can see what this saying is getting at. It is hard to
relate to someone you have never seen, met, or even know their
name. So back to Kubricks’ intent. I think that he was trying to play
on this common understanding by creating some ironic relatability. By
feeling sad when Private Pile and the general died in the beginning,
shouldn’t we feel just as bad, or worse, when an event where thousands
of people have died? I personally think that this is a good idea for
anyone to sit on for a bit, including myself. Even though it is hard
to relate to events that happen thousands of miles away, that doesn’t
mean we shouldn’t care.

Overall I did enjoy this film and would rate it a solid 7/10 for it’s
interesting setting change and it’s ability to blend together a story
of a boy in training camp with a story of his friends fighting in the
Vietnam war.

## Marissa’s Rating

This movie is yet another beautiful Kubrick film, intertwining deep
messages into a seemingly superficial war story.

7/10
