#+TITLE: Anakin

As a gift to you (and as sort of a freebie week when it comes to
writing these things), I give you the finest piece of literature that
I produced in my academic career. I found it while organizing my
school documents into archives. It’s an essay written for
developmental psychology on Anakin Skywalker. What makes this my
favorite paper? Despite Anakin’s bizarrely flat characterization, how
incoherent the plot of The Phantom Menace was, my lack of research on
the topic beyond contextless buzzwords scrawled from Wikipedia to the
back of a Chinese takeout menu, and the fact that I yammered the whole
document in between generous bites of a s’mores Pop-Tart two pack, I
got out a-dodge with a cool 48/50.

#+CAPTION: It’s true – Anakin shows as much character depth as a barnacle, a shoelace, or Channing Tatum.
[[file:images/anakin.jpg]]

You can download the official version [[file:documents/anakin.pdf][here]].

And so, without further ado, I give you The Phantom Menace: A
Character Study.

-----

Star Wars: The Phantom Menace confounded Star Wars universe
aficionados and movie critics alike when it rose to the top of the
saga as the most powerful Star Wars film ever written, all while
boldly overstepping the status quo of the films that came before
it. The film's success in theaters, without a doubt, was due to its
authentic exploration of a dazzling variety of rich relationships –
Jedi master and Padawan, magistrate and citizen, and mother and son –
propelled by political intrigue, the struggle for justice, and bravery
in the face of decimation. In short, Star Wars: The Phantom Menace is
a cinematic masterpiece.

Though every character in the film bears a respectable developmental
path which hardly deserves to be ignored, I have chosen in this paper
to focus on the journey of Anakin Skywalker. Anakin, fittingly, had
odd beginnings. On the arid planet of Tattooine, Schmi Skywalker
conceived him immaculately. As she recounted to Qui-gon Jin, “There
was no father”. Despite is undeniably special origin, Anakin was born
into poverty. He and his mother were sold to Wotto, a disagreeable
junk dealer and urchin of society. Forbidden to leave the planet, Ani
and his mother must make a solace of their hell. Ani keeps himself
busy . tinkering with droids, conversing with space pirates, and
playing with his neighborhood friends. Together, he and his mother
live in a humble, quaint sand hut near the outside of the city.

Anakin's beginnings provide us insight into our first two
developmental themes. Our first theme is the effect of socioeconomic
status (SES) on a child's development. It was discussed in class this
semester that child's socioeconomic status can affect many aspects of
its development. Because its family may not have access to nutrition
and health care, the child may be persistently malnourished and
unhealthy. These disadvantages inevitably propagate into the child's
cognitive development. If there are physical ailments inhibiting the
brain from physically developing and growing, there is little hope the
child will react well to intellectual stimulation. As a parallel
struggle, it would be typical for Schmi to be too preoccupied by her
job to provide Anakin the proper exposure of vocabulary. But the film
tells a different story. Anakin amazingly overcomes his socioeconomic
status. Anakin appears fit and active, and has developed healthy
eating habits. He is seen showing Qui-gon fruit at the local market,
as well as happily eating an organic meal at home. Anakin is very
mentally active as well. It is evident that he acts as the house's
“handy man”. Additionally, Anakin is persistently tinkering with
robotics, whether he is working on his protocol droid to assist his
mother or laboring over his pod racer. Though it is unclear how much
time Schmi can afford to spend with Ani, there is mutual and tender
respect. In this regard, Anakin defied the statistics of his
situation. Although he was subject to the dangers of growing up with a
low socioeconomic status, he maintained a developmentally healthy
lifestyle.

A second of aspect of development we must reconcile with Anakin's
early life is the idea of family structure vs function. It was
confirmed through class discussion that the function of a family is
vastly more critical to a child's developmental health than that
family's structure. It is how a family interacts with its members and
extended members that determines the health of an environment, and not
the structure itself. Anakin was raised by a single mother. Without a
second parent, much strain can be perpetuated in household
relationships as the single parent must walk the thin line between
complete provider and imminent parent. Anakin's mother Schmi was,
evidently, well equipped to for the task of raising him as a single
parent. Strong, wise, collected, loving – these were all
characteristics she modeled for young Anakin Skywalker. Schmi, in her
strength, exemplified how a family's function can overcome
shortcomings in its structure.

Anakin's life takes a dramatic turn upon his serendipitous union with
Qui-gon Jin. Qui-gon, who is looking to replace a hyper drive on his
getaway ship, happens to enter Wotto's shop. In this scene, Anakin
also meets Padame for the first time. Here, we get a humorous glimpse
at the social skills Anakin has acquired up to this point. In class,
many aspects of social skills were discussed. These included managing
emotions, reading others' emotions, nonverbal communication,
conversation, listening, personal space, and approaching
others. Anakin sees Padame enter his shop, and without hesitation asks
“Are you an angel?” Padame, flustered by the odd inquiry, does here
best to respond just as playfully, remarking, “You're a silly little
boy.” Throughout the conversation, Anakin demonstrates good listening
skills, respect for personal space (despite his immediate infatuation
for Padame), and conversational rhythm. Although his introduction was
odd, Anakin establishes a rapport of potential with Padame and her
crew using his charming personality.

Following introductions, a dust storm drives Qui-gon and his crew into
Anakin's home, where his mother Schmi welcomes them with a gentle
heart. Here, as Anakin eagerly gives Padame a tour of his humble
living quarters, we are given a glimpse into the fourth concept –
Erikson's stage of industry vs. inferiority. According to Erikson's
theory, children at around the age of Anakin become gripped with their
own competence. This is the central task they are given, and if they
fail, they must compromise with inferiority. Anakin loves to
tinker. Mechanical robot parts, shop tools, and machines fill the
floor and walls of his bedroom. It is quite evident that Anakin is
fixated on his own mastery of skills. Anakin is working on a scanner
to find the slave chip implanted in him and his mother, building a
protocol droid to help around the house, and constructing a pod racer
all while working in Wotto's shop. Additionally, Anakin is eager to
show off his accomplishments, reminding his mother and informing his
guests of all the things he is working on. He enjoys the viscous
competition of intergalactic high-stakes pod racing, priding himself
in being the “only human that can race pods”. Throughout the race,
Anakin demonstrates a high level of dexterity and competence, using
his sharp instincts to subdue his competitors and win his freedom –
all while retaining unflinching optimism and confidence. Erikson,
along with his mother, would be proud.

Lastly, we find the fifth and final theme of developmental
psychology. We are given intimate insight into Anakin's high level of
morality while he is speaking with Qui-gon Jin. According to Kholberg,
there is the pre conventional stage (which includes obedience and self
interested perspective), conventional (which includes interpersonal
relationships and social order), and post conventional (which includes
higher universal ethical principles). When Anakin is confronted with
the choice to leave with Qui-gon, he reveals that his motivation to
develop his supernatural gifts and train as a Jedi is primarily
motivated by a post conventional moral perspective. Anakin reminds his
mother, “the biggest problem in the universe is that no one helps each
other.” Anakin has a remarkably giving spirit and, according to
Kholberg's scheme, a very highly developed moral attitude. Anakin is
motivated by helping others, ultimately aspiring to return to his home
planet and, championing his Jedi training, free his fellow slaves.

In studying Anakin's behavior in The Phantom Menace, I am led to
conclude his character is especially strong. Anakin overcomes the
disadvantages of a low socioeconomic status and being raised by a
single mother. Anakin also demonstrates an admirable eagerness for
social interaction and a commendable determination to master his
crafts. Lastly, Anakin shows great maturity in his understanding of
universal ethical principles.In The Phantom Menace, Anakin Skywalker
illustrates healthy developmental behavior. Sadly, his pristine
example quickly decays as he falls under the influence of Darth
Sidious. The same is true for our lives – our development as people is
never finished. The fruits of a healthy upbringing are always in
danger of being rotted by a slothful adolescence and a hateful
adulthood. Anakin, a gleaming, optimistic, and deeply moral boy was
corrupted – forsaking his roots to become one of the most evil tyrants
in the galaxy. It is wise to always consider development as a process
– never settling for who we are in the now, but pursuing who we could
be.
