#+TITLE: Arguments

I bet you thought I was turning into one of those people that only
blog every three months, then eventaully abandon their blog and just
do other, less self-centered things. Maybe you thought I started to
find more satisfaction and fulfillment in interpersonal interaction
and I was dieting from the Internet. Maybe you thought I died.

You are all wrong. I'm here to inform you I am not dead, still
uninterested in speaking to anyone face-to-face if I can help it, and
ready to spew some more casual prose onto the Internet. I haven't been
writing much in my blog, but I have been coding. I've spent the last
week completely rewriting this site. Although it may not look like a
ton has changed - save a few widgets moved around, I reworked a lot of
the plumbing. Things are still kind of drippy, but as always we are
working through it.

#+CAPTION: If any of my friends were wondering, this is how I would define you. The 'classy' ones anyway.
[[./images/sadfriends.png]]

This week, we are CC'ing our HR department, passing around the talking
totem, and plunging headlong into an exploration of the human mind,
heart, and amygdala. You had better leave your id some place safe,
reader, because things are about to get speculative and vaguely
informed in the department of armchair psychology. Conflict week!

* Do like middle-children do

I have been undergoing premarital counseling over the past few
weeks. Since the topic of conflict has been on my mind, I decided to
turn the looking glass inward. How do I handle conflict?

It might disappoint some of you to learn that my most resolvable
depiction of how I handle conflict is as the typical middle child. You
can [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birth_order][read about it yourself]], but there happens to be a lot of
controversy around the idea that the order in which your children are
born manifest certain types of habits. It saddens me to learn that it
is not a popular idea, since I believe my family illustrates the
theory quite nicely.

Siblings: chime in if I am off base here , but I think we illustrate
almost the perfect birth-order-psychology family. According to the
theory, Kelly (being the oldest), feels comfortable handling
interpersonal conflict head on. She focuses on the confrontation from
beginning to end, addressing issues as they are brought up. Kelly was
always the best at talking to adults. Although we are only two to
three years apart, I always depended on Kelly's ability to pay the
pizza guy, answer the phone, and explain to the baby sitter why I peed
with the door open.

Sarah on the otherhand - being the youngest, would be expected to take
a more community-oriented approach. Most decisions started with her
friends and family. Let's take a vote, go around and share, take
turns, and ultimately do whatever is needed to achieve the most
equilibrium in the affair. I remember footage of Sarah's 4th birthday
party where she is putting down a hissy fit catalyzed by a wicked game
of musical chairs.

Me? Middle children avoid conflict. I read somewhere that a frequent
staple for our people in achieving conflict aversion is poorly-placed
humor . As you could imagine, a child that prefers jokes in tense
situations will spend most days wandering between well-deserved
schoolyard beatings and parent-teacher meetings. This was especially
bad in fifth grade - which is like that magical eutectic between the
lowest your intelligence will ever be and the highest your self esteem
will ever be.

I like to think that I have gotten better and dealing with conflict
more directly, or at least waiting until things have cooled down
enough for a more low-calorie quip. I am happy to report that I pay
the pizza guy myself now - albeit online - I still have do answer the
door.

#+CAPTION: I nominate this guy as our mascot
[[./images/chandler.jpg]]

* Girlfriends shouldn't be debugged

But leaving one nasty habit for another, I transitioned from the
habitual Too Soon remark into a new, stranger way of handling
conflict. I debug .

For the non-weirdos here, debugging is the act of fixing an error in a
program. The best way I can describe it is like when you are doing
math homework, and you discover that your answer doesn't match the
answer in the back of the book, though in reality it's much more
intense. Just take the math homework analogy and add a twist of Hunger
Games animal instinct and you are basically there.

The truth is debugging is actually kind of a brutal process. When a
programmer finds something conflicting in a program, they'll repeat
the mistake hundreds, likely thousands of times - changing something
small each time. We'll repeat it faster, slower, with a smaller
window, in a larger window, in firefox, in chrome, in Internet
Explorer, half in opera - half in safari - until we've learned as much
information about the problem as we possibly can. Additionally,
programmers will use what are called breakpoints - or a big red dot
that we place on a line of code that sends the entire program to a
screeching halt.

Doing this daily, I started to confuse people with permutations and
find myself debugging my girlfriend. When a problem or conflict arises
(like one of us has to pay the pizza guy), I often resort to the same
animal sliver of my brain and resume debugging. I interrupt, break,
slow down, and ask questions at copy-paste speed. Consequently, I come
off as aggressive and manipulative, as if my determined scrutiny is
really just a giant watchful eye waiting to catch her commiting to a
fallacy.

#+CAPTION: In other words, I'm a douchebag. Now which ladies haven't I debugged yet?
[[./images/douchebag.jpg]]

I'd imagine this kind of thing rings true for technical-minded people
even outside of programming. People who spend all day mending garbled
spreadsheets, dividing mililiters by microliters, and mapping billing
codes may fall into the same trap, damaging important
relationships. It's time to have that conversation with your pizza
guy, perhaps. You guys' relationship is just too special to throw it
away on a miscommunication unexplored.

* The real reason I hate arguing

But diminished rapport pails in comparison to the real reason I hate
arguments. They're repetitive. In what other area of life do we
willingly partake in a semi-regular, mutual exchange of verbal
sparring and hostility sometimes for hours at a time? Arguments are
time consuming, costly, and I'd imagine they contribute their fair
share of traffic accidents and shooting range mishaps.

I'd consider Marissa my best friend, but it can be no secret that
Marissa and I get into conflicts sometimes. If we didn't, the doctor
would have to check either of us for robot parts where our genitals
should be. But I noticed that we were really only having three to four
types of arguments. I started to log them in a little text file in my
dropbox. We have one of them figured out so far.

We call it "/I said thanks - just not in your language/":

1. Person A does something they consider selfless for Person B
2. Person B does not notice because it isn't something they focus on
3. Person A waits for a gesture of appreciation from Person B, but it
   never comes.
4. Person A confronts Person B - probably wrathfully - much to the
   surprise of Person B
5. Person B retalliates, defending numerous examples in which they
   were grateful for things Person A has done for them, followed by an
   explosive accusations of Person A for setting unrealistic
   expectations (ie, /Am I supposed to be psychic or something?/)
6. Person A defends their need to feel appreciated, and is likely
   offended that Person B sees this as so ridiculous
7. Persons fight until exhaustion overcomes them. Once the adrenaline
   subsides, the reach a placated thesis together.

*Thesis*: Person A needed to feel appreciated in a certain way for
 doing a certain thing - both of which Person B was unaware of.

Exhausting, isn't it? By the third time around this nauseating
carousel (alternating who was Person A and Person B that month),
Marissa and I decided to debug this. Any good programmer can take a
series of tedious tasks and, after a few hours of sweaty self-doubt,
turn it into a program. If it sounds ridiculous, think of it
objectively - if the same thing happens everytime, why can't we just
skip to the end?

Which is what we started doing. Here is how these arguments play out
now:

1. Person A does something they consider selfless for Person B
2. Person B does not notice, because it isn't something they focus on
3. Person A references the emerging ISTJNIYL , informing them on both
   what they did and how they were expecting to feel appreciated
4. Person B calmly takes down the recommendation on a sticky note and
   remembers it for next time. Both parties simultaneously reach an
   understanding that neither of them were being negligent,
   ungrateful, or unrealistic.

#+CAPTION: Then Person B commences Seinfeld rerun therapy
[[./images/seinfeldtherapy.png]]

I'm not trying to be pious or anything. If it helps, I'll mention that
we've only really figured out one type of argument - but I'll admit
it's really gratifying when we come across 'ol ISTJNIYL and resolve
the whole stink in thirty seconds.

That's basically my approach to conflict now. It doesn't work all the
time, but I have had some successes in trying to find argument
patterns - to really pay attention to how stuff resolves, then analyze
to find out if we can just skip to that part next time. It can't be
too hard to pursue. Everyone hates repeating themselves.
