#+TITLE: Barry Lyndon

* Alex's Thoughts

Sorry for the unexpected break in Kubrick Week , readers. We bravely
committed to finishing the film Barry Lyndon in one night. At 11:30
PM - well past my adult bed time - the word “Intermission” flashed on
the screen and completely demoralized us. We had to skip a night and
finish it the following night.

I learned something about Kubrick. I thought he only did demented
stuff. But I report to you that Barry Lyndon was long, beautiful, and
totally PG. No murders, sex cults, or dystopia. I learned that Kubrick
had the capacity to be very normal. I got a sense that this was his
nod to the academy.

Part 1 of the movie was called By What Means Redmond Barry Acquired
the Style and Title of Barry Lyndon . I like to refer to it as Barry
shoots a guy in the face . I don’t mean to ruin it, but this guy named
Barry really does shoot a guy in the face. More specifically, it’s a
British general that’s in love with his cousin. Barry kills him in a
duel and flees the country. He deserts two armies and marries a rich
lady, assuming her wealth and status.

Part 2 is a classic obsession-driven downward spiral. He antagonizes
his eldest step son by doting on his youngest son. The youngest son
dies and Barry drinks himself silly. The eldest son returns to
challenge his father to a gun duel and - pause for irony - Barry
totally gets shot.

I will say that for how long this movie was, it moved at a decent
clip. For a guy that gets antsy in Lord of the Rings, I was really
surprised with myself that I made it through a three hour long movie
set during the Seven Years War. Before today, even just saying the
word “Prussia” made me yawn.

It’s a story of luck, obsession, and rich person douchebaggery. Luck
was clearly an important part of the story. Barry was a professional
gambler and, taking the odd events that lead to his rising status for
granted, fell into the gambler’s fallacy and lost it all.

* Alex's Review

Albeit long, this movie was a real palette cleanser. If you are into
the Pride and Prejudice scene and you have a whole afternoon to kill,
give Barry Lyndon a shot (in the face).

7/10

* Marissa's Thoughts

I have to be honest, I don’t have any extensive analytical theories
about this movie. As we were watching Barry Lyndon I was searching and
searching for some hidden meaning or some odd unexpected
conclusions. After watching about half the movie I realized that Barry
Lyndon is just a solid, well- written, intriguing early historic tale
of a young man. It follow him from his first love to late in his
life. The movie is three hours long, so when I say that it follows his
life, I mean it. Alex and I did have to watch the movie in two
sittings (sorry for the late post!) but after watching both parts of
the movie, we were again pleased with another Kubrick film. My one
comment regarding the movie is that it (like many other films) follows
the unexpectedness of events in life. Especially after having
graduated from college you think that you have every step of your life
planned out for you. The truth is that we never know what the next
step in life will truly be. In Barry Lyndon this point is well
exaggerated as the main character Barry goes from one side of a war to
another and from poverty to royalty. Overall this movie is a
particularly good film to sit down and watch with a good meal, a good
drink, and good company. I would give Barry Lyndon a 7.5/10. I would
go higher up, but personally it was a bit dry, but what can you expect
from a movie made in the 70’s!

* Marissa’s Rating

Overall this movie is a particularly good film to sit down and watch
with a good meal, a good drink, and good company.

7.5/10
