#+TITLE: Bedbugs
#+DATE: <2015-07-24 Fri>
#+SUBTITLE: An embittered account of our war with orchid knoll over bedbugs. You decide who the real parasite is!

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
It's hard to stay mad, when there's so much beauty in the
world. Sometimes I feel like I'm seeing it all at once, and it's too
much, my heart fills up like a balloon that's about to burst... And
then I remember to relax, and stop trying to hold on to it, and then
it flows through me like rain and I can't feel anything but gratitude
for every single moment of my stupid little life... You have no idea
what I'm talking about, I'm sure. But don't worry... you will someday.
#+END_QUOTE

That's a quote from /American Beauty/ that has been really resonating
with me lately. But unlike Lester Burnham, it's not all the beauty in
this world that makes my heart want to give out. It's the
stupidity. And I find it very easy to get mad.

Let me back up a bit - a few nights ago I was upstairs yammering on my
computer. Marissa was at work, and the hours were starting to roll
over into the single digits. I thought it best I turn in for the
night.

Then I noticed a bug on the wall. It was rust colored and about the
size of one of those round slips of paper that fall out of a hole
puncher. It moved slowly and deliberately on the wall in plain
site. Living in Wisconsin for two months, we were already acquainted
with the exotic bugs here on the lakeside.

I reached for a post-it note and pressed it over the creature's
body. Its carapace popped, sending a streak of crimson blood down the
wall. Boy scouts out there will back me up, but when you find an
insect filled with human blood, you google it.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
blood beetle
#+END_QUOTE

Search.  Loading...

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Did you mean *Bed Bugs*?
#+END_QUOTE

Oh God, I hope I didn't. I clicked the Images tab and felt my mouth
gape in horror. Hundreds of thumbnails of similar looking bugs. Rust
colored, flat, and filled with blood.

#+CAPTION: Sidenote: next time you search for an insect on Google Images, take note of how many hits include a colony of said insect living inside somebody's brain.
[[file:images/bedbug1.jpg]]

Our apartment had bed bugs. When my wife got home from work, we spend
the next few hours sifting through our bed sheets and thumbing the
cracks in our walls. The bodies began to stack up. We found about four
that night.

Catching a bedbug is very easy. The ones you can actually see are
almost proud to be caught. Finding a bed bug on your wall feels sort
of like walking in front of someone while there picture is being
taken. I could imagine their little brown mouths hissing um... excuse
me? You can't really count on crushing a bed bug to death. You should
probably keep it intact anyway so it can be identified by a
professional. The way to do it is by just taking a piece of scotch
tape and folding it over its body. Then it just kind of lives the rest
of its life pressed in that tape. They can go for months without
eating, so the one's we caught are probably still alive.

#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/pIQvB"><a
href="https://imgur.com/a/pIQvB">Bed Bugs</a></blockquote><script
async src="https://s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
#+END_EXPORT

The next day, I turned to the loving arms of the Internet for
information. If you've never researched bed bugs, I'd recommend
it. They are fascinating.

Get this - most people don't react to the bites at all. They don't
carry any diseases of any kind. Occasionally the local anesthetic they
administer to a host causes mild allergic reactions. They are
attracted to carbon dioxide, which is why they tend to gather in
bedrooms.

Most 'meals' occur in rows. This is because the bedbug starts feeding
furthest from his home, then times the bites with your night time
stirring.

Clutter facilitates their survival, but good hygiene doesn't provide
any advantage. Most people pick them up from hotels. They are very
difficult to treat. Chemicals simply cause them to scatter. A
professional treatment involves sniffing dogs and three separate days
of intense sterile heat and chemical application.

We sent off an email to our building manager and waited. In the
meantime, we mentioned the incident to a neighbor of ours. She
mentioned that our neighbors several doors down were displaced from
their apartment for the same reason. Marissa and I were relieved. It
was the first time we didn't feel like this was all our fault. We
could finally stop mentally tracing our steps. We were simply the
victim of a larger problem in the building.

That night I was taking Ollie outside when I noticed two healthy adult
bed bugs sprawled out proudly in the hallway of our building. I guess
my eyes were fine tuned to spot them after three straight nights of
scouring my own apartment. The inspector was coming to our apartment
tomorrow, so I figured he would be interested in knowing that I found
bugs in the hallway. I bagged them and added them to the pile. With
the purest of intentions, my wife penned some neighborly advice with a
sharpie.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Warning! We found bed bugs in the hallway. Please check your beds and
let [manager's name] know if you find any!
#+END_QUOTE

She even drew a little bed bug on it as a kind of stationary. I added
to it by taping one of the subdued specimens to the note for further
visual aid.

To our surprise, the note was removed immediately. My wife texted our
manager to see if she knew anything about it.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Marissa: Hey [manager]! Did you take down the bed bugs sign by the
mailbox?

Manager: Yes we are not sure what the bugs are yet and we need to have
someone come inspect before you get everyone all worried. Please do
not put up another note.
#+END_QUOTE

Fair enough - I guess it's not 100% confirmed that these blood filled
bugs we are finding around our bed are actually bed bugs . After all,
maybe our building has a massive south american bat infestation and
these bugs are the rare and exotic bat ticks that look deceptively
similar.

Marissa took the opportunity to ask about our neighbors.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Marissa: OK that makes sense but isn't [neighbor's number] moved out
because of them? I feel like you need to let everyone know if that is
the case.

Manager: No [neighbor's number] is on vacation. When we find out if
there is a problem the issue will be addressed and those tenants
affected will be notified.
#+END_QUOTE

Cryptic, right? We were puzzled. Despite finding bugs in the hallway,
our building manager was very precise in wording - /those tenants
affected/. Wouldn't it be reasonable to send out a flier warning
people? Maybe some helpful tips on securing and checking their unit?
I've lived in enough dorms and apartments at this point in my life to
know what the protocol is.

But fine - our landlord doesn't like to call something that gallops a
horse. They were apparently still waiting for a professional to rule
out /zebra/.

The inspector found several more bugs in our room and confirmed their
identity. At that point, my wife and I had no interest in where they
were. You can only stand guard for so long before you physically need
to switch off that part of your brain. We had both developed something
the bedbug survivor community refers to as /Bed Bug PTSD/. The
shooting fear that sits you up in bed and compels you to run a
flashlight over your legs one last time. The horrible visions of those
brown little bugs swarming your neck and arms the second you close
your eyes. It's terrible living like this.

But they were indeed bed bugs. The inspector was particularly
interested in the bugs I found in the hallway.

That's it - case closed, right? Send in the dogs. Tell everyone to bag
their clothes and hide their babies. Despite being forbidden from
/visually/ informing neighbor's, everyone already knew. Our building
had bed bugs. We should be allowed to tell people now, right?

I returned from work to find a note taped to my door.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Tenants,

Tomorrow is our annual pest inspection. Please have your apartments
ready to be inspected.

Your Building Manager
#+END_QUOTE

Annual pest inspection? These people are kidding right? They have yet
to distribute the term 'bed bug' in an official communication. At this
point, the reluctance to acknowledge an actual problem in the building
is starting to creep me out. Our manager's tip-toeing was starting to
anger me, but another resident beat me to the punch. That night,
another note was slipped underneath our door.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
NOTICE FROM A CONCERNED TENANT:

This is not an "annual" inspection. There have been two confirmed
cases of bed bugs on the 2nd floor within the past few weeks. The
property manager would not allow a sign to be posted on the bulletin
board, so I am slipping this under your door. If the bugs have spread
to your apartment, this is due to negligence on the property manager's
part in not informing you earlier so that you could take the necessary
precautions.
#+END_QUOTE

As I finished the note, I felt as if I was about to witness a car
accident. Every word of it is true - and the note didn't even mention
the bugs I found in the hallway.

The next morning we awoke to the sound of pounding on the door. My
clock read 6:45 AM. The distinct sound of a fist throwing against the
door shook the house. It was the kind of knocking that would come from
a swat team about to fill the building with gas. Both my wife and I,
recovering from a horrible head cold, were reluctant to answer. By the
time I trudged downstairs, the knocking had subsided and a single
white sheet of paper lay on the ground.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
You guys should really get your facts straight before you go writing
nasty notes and slipping them under everyone's door. I only do what I
am told around here and that is it! The management company knows
everything that goes on in this building and I just do what I am told.

To put a letter under everyone's door that personally attacks a person
is not very Christian like, especially when your note is a lie.

Here is the office # XXX.XXX.XXXX so you can call them with any
issues, oh wait you already have! Maybe you should try again!
#+END_QUOTE

I was dazed. Was I dreaming? Had I been killed by bed bugs last night
and was just experiencing a bizarre last-moments hallucination? How
could an adult actually write something like this?

First of all, we did not write the NOTICE FROM A CONCERNED TENANT. I
won't deny that I fist pumped when I saw it and envied the kahones of
the author, but sadly I cannot take credit for it.

Secondly, did this need to be given to us at 6:45 in the morning?

Thinking I had, at the very least, a decent noise complaint on my
hands. I reached out to the corporate office Wisconsin Lakefront
Property Management located in California of all places. Nice.

The claims our manager made in the ridiculous letter were true. Both
Marissa and I had reached out by phone and email at least once a day
for a week. And that was before the Wisconsin Lakefront Properties
one-man gestapo tried to breach my door that morning.

My phone rang around lunch time. I answered it in my car. The
conversation was too exhausting to recount, but the woman from the
corporate offices was one of those people that things they are
incapable of losing an argument - even if they don't try.

We quibbled at length about the their responsibility to disclose pest
infestation. I'm no lawyer - I don't even watch Law and Order. The
point of my argument was wouldn't it be helpful to warn people? Why
are you guys trying so hard to keep it a secret from people? The point
of her's was that the infestation was only in two units . This woman
thought it was entirely reasonable that the pests infested our
neighbor's place, then sent a few bugs twelve doors down the hallway
to our place - ignoring all the other units. There - only two units
are infested.

It was one of those arguments that I thought I would win by just
getting the other person to say their viewpoint out loud. How wrong
was I!

But what about the bugs I found in the hallway? Oh those?
Those... were not in the report she received from the inspector. She
assured me she would double check, but in the meantime, since there
were no other infestations, there is no need to alert other people.

But... but... wouldn't they need to be told about the problem before
they bothered checking their own unit? Whatever - you can't argue with
this kind of talk. It was clear that they were not interested in
alerting people about the bed bugs. They are undoubtedly just trying
to keep the whole thing under wraps so they will not have to pay to
treat the whole building. It's ridiculously evil, but I can get over
it.

The woman was ready to hang up when I squeezed out one more
question. I'm going to do my best to paraphrase what happened without
somehow making her look more obtuse than she actually was.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Me: "Did you read my complaint's about [manager's] letter?"

Her: "Which one was that again?"

Me: "The one she left us at 6:45 this morning. She was pounding on our
door. Do you condone that kind of thing?"

Her: "Well... I would have to know the details of it all"

Me: "So given the right context, you think that's ok?"

Her: "Don't put words in my mouth."

Me: "Is it really that hard to say it was inappropriate of her to do
that? Has anyone ever pounded on your door early in the morning?"

Her: "I don't have to answer that."

Me: "You know she tried to use our faith to coerce us into feeling
guilty. Is that ok to do?"

Her: "What do you mean?"

Me: "She accused us of passing out notes and said it wasn't very
christian of us."

Her: "Well isn't that true? I've heard the same about christians."

Me: "Look, this was harassment and we don't want it to happen again."

Her: "Well, you should be understanding of what [manager] is feeling
right now."
#+END_QUOTE

After a few more leaky arguments, stubborn rejections, and plain
buffoonery, the woman hung up on me. Jerry Seinfeld is right - hanging
up one someone with a smartphone is not nearly as satisfying as it
used to be with a real phone.

Meanwhile, my wife got an equally warm reply from our apartment
manager.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Marissa: We did not put the notes under everyone's door. There are
many frustrated tenants like us.

Manager: This is my personal cell phone #. If you need to reach me for
an orchid knoll matter you need to call the office @ XXX.XXX.XXXX and
your call will be returned within 24 hours during normal business
hours which are monday-friday 8-4. Have a good day and no more replies
will be given from this # for any reason.
#+END_QUOTE

My wife spoke to our neighbors - who were ground zero for the
infestation. Apparently they had bought a mattress that managed to
scoop up a few bed bug pilgrims in a moving truck. By the time they
discovered them, there was a full blown nest living in their bed. They
told us they would be fined $600 for every unit affected . I pray that
whichever judge has to tie this all up is struck with the inherent
stupidity of proving who is to blame for onboarding barely macroscopic
insects.

So here we are - sharing our home with likely hundreds of tiny rust
coloured roommates that get drunk on our blood every night, as well as
a building manager that feels like she can pound on our door in the
middle of the night. The only thing our manager has communicated was a
brief forward of our scheduled bed bug treatments allowing with a
harrowing $150 fine if our apartment is not "prepared properly."

I'm going to be honest with you, dear reader. I'm not built for this
kind of thing. I haven't been this stressed since I tried watching The
Wire . I go to sleep with psychosomatic tingling all over my body and
I wake up with a knot in my stomach that wretches tighter every time I
pass our building manager's apartment. Murmurs of lawsuits and
fabricated fines fill the hallways these days. I wasn't built for
drama.

Which is why I can promise you I don't mean to just air my dirty
laundry out on my blog for the sake of dirty laundry. You can only
take the slings and arrows of a greedy property conglomerate and a
landlord with a twisted interpretation of their responsibilities for
so long before you need to just say everything at once. I think I just
needed to drop my entire argument in one place, satirize it, then walk
away.

After all of this, my best conclusion is that Wisconsin Lakefront
Properties LLC is run by bed bugs. Maybe it was run by humans at one
point, but bed bugs moved in, killed them, and just decided to front
prime bedbug real estate as human living developments. Maybe our
landlord is a humanoid robot being controlled by millions of bed
bugs. Maybe they will eventually control all of us.

If any of that is the case, I really can't blame them. We all are just
doing what we can to survive. Ironically, the bed bugs themselves come
out being the most considerate players in this drama. They don't carry
diseases, only feed when we are sleeping, and are kind enough to numb
the pain before they take a modest amount of blood. When you look at
it like that, they don't seem like parasites. They are more like
symbiotes .

I'm pretty much done fighting. If our landlord manages to stick us
with some stupid fine or my rent mysteriously goes up for no reason, I
am sure that I don't have the energy to fight these people. I'm ready
to just relax and stop trying to hold on to being right. I'm ready to
stop feeling wronged and start feeling grateful again. Do you know
what I'm talking about? I hope you do someday.

And now for the obligatory cliche. Goodnight, readers. Don't let the
bedbugs bite.
