#+TITLE: Can I Interest You in Some Totalitarianism?
#+DATE: <2014-06-03 Tue>
#+SUBTITLE: You have woken up in a world stifled by a massive totalitarian government. For once, let’s not talk about the worthy implications. What would suck? What would be pretty good?

I get a sense that the public opinion of a totalitarian government is
generally poor. But between the harrowing, shadowy dystopian cinema
and hellfire, red-faced radio hosts, I can’t seem to find an opinion
that is not larger than life itself. Call me selfish, but if someone
were to ask me to imagine my life in a global civilization subdued by
one powerful, all-knowing global government, my first thought wouldn’t
be What would happen to the Mona Lisa? or Here is what I think will
become of the euro...

I find it much more compelling to talk about the small annoyances in
light of the trivial advantages of a totalitarian government. I’m not
interested in the things about this new life of no privacy and
complete provision that would make you dump ash on your head, nor make
you bark Power to the People, Man . We have all seen the Steven
Spielberg version of the dystopian totalitarian government, but have
any of us sat through the John Candy version?

Following that brief context, here are Things that would suck, and
things that would be preeeeeeety good about a global totalitarian
government.

* Good: No more emails from viagra

Imagine this, reader. You wake from bed and begin your first morning
as a compulsory patriotic citizen of earth. You open the government
sanctioned email application on your computer and notice that there is
no spam folder in your email. “Ah - I see the catch. I’m not allowed
to filter for spam in this stupid global government. I just have to
keep it in my email,” you mumble through your morning breath.

But you are wrong . There is no spam in this new world order. There
are no more emails from Viagra because the government has already
selected their favorite male enhancement pill and liquidated the other
companies (and they probably just started adding it to everyone’s
drinking water anyway). No more email spam, comrade.

But think bigger! Think about every commercial on TV that makes you
mad - those Sonic commercials where the camera makes people’s head
look too big for their neck... the GoDaddy ads that brag about how
many of their commercials got banned from the Super Bowl... those fake
parties where a bunch of beautiful people celebrate when someone shows
up with a bag of Wendy’s... they are all gone. Not only that, but all
of the people that were paid to write those stupid commercials were
probably shot into space as punishment for their stupid, stupid ideas
for commercials.

See? You have only been awake in your new miserable existence for
maybe fifteen minutes, and you can’t help but crack a smile.

* Good: Reality TV is actually real

I can’t watch shows like American Idol, Survivor, or The Apprentice. I
am too irked by the suspicion that none of these people are actually
embarrassed, weary, nor actually getting fired from something.

Some things on TV I know are staged. If you are like me, you would
need both hands to count the times you have thrown an empty bottle of
Jim Beam at the TV because some scummy parents staged a hilarious
mishap with their eight-year-old and were honored on America’s
Funniest Home Videos. Am I really the only one that takes this title
seriously? I’m flabbergasted that someone cheating in a sporting event
as obscure as a cycling can darken American optimism, while a sacred
ritual that is supposed to honor the Funniest Home Videos in America
is desecrated every day.

But imagine a world where there are cameras everywhere. They roll 24/7
without commercial breaks. And since there is no short of human shame,
I believe reality TV would inherit a sweet return to its authentic,
human shame roots.

In a world of indiscriminate government surveillance, every house can
become the Real World . And no more stringing us honest Real World
viewers along with phony character developments and
big-network-prodded-plot-twists. If the characters get dumb, we can
trust our good government to hurl them into space.

Or maybe we could move them onto a deserted island? We could get a
chance to enjoy Survivor in its purest form. You get all the
excitement of twenty something year old children braving the harsh
elements by “forming alliances” without being haunted by the suspicion
that these people are just eating KFC off camera. Then when they are
done with their stint on the island, just for shiggles we make them
perform their favorite Maroon 5 song acapella for America.

Now I dare you to tell me reality TV wouldn’t be awesome in a
dystopian totalitarian future.

#+CAPTION: I’m eroding your country’s values, and I might not even be a real squirrel
[[file:images/twiggy.jpg]]


* Bad: Church would be weird

I’m a church going man. While it is important to me that I get plugged
into a consistent church community, I have a secret hobby that I
entertain - I really like to church hop. There’s always plenty for
your mind to do while sitting in a congregation you don’t belong
in. The college student in me likes to critique and dissect the
philosophy I’m being exposed to, but I think I enjoy it most on behalf
of the child in me. I like to feel like a secret agent hiding behind
enemy lines.

The most general thing I have gathered from church hopping is that
churches are very different. Imagining church life in context of a
global government leads me to think it would be too hard to get rid of
church all together. A global government responsible for keeping the
peace of an entire planet of human beings would be more likely opt for
stability over purity, which makes me thing that church would have to
be a service that made everyone happy. But you couldn’t just rotate
preachers or concatenate all the different services together. Too many
religions would be offended by the mere acknowledgement of certain
others. This isn’t just Lutherans and Catholics in the same room, mind
you. We have to open pews for the Satanists, Mormons, and maybe even
the people that stay for the “weird” part of your Yoga class.

The closest thing to a weekly religious experience that would fulfill
all walks of spiritual life is everyone eating crackers and watching
an episode of Mister Roger’s Neighborhood .

#+CAPTION: Go ahead, comrade. Confess your sins to merciful Lady Elaine.
[[file:images/elaine.jpg]]

* Bad: Single-ply toilet paper

Maybe I’m getting paranoid with this one, but I have a hunch that no
one in this new world would ever feel the soft caress of triple ply
toilet paper ever again. Toilet paper seems like the first budget cut
any huge system makes when it is in a pinch.

Whenever I picture myself as a corrupt dictator or shady politician, I
imagine that my vice would be good toilet paper. I would get elected
on the grounds of financial reform, anger my citizens with outrageous
regulations on toilet paper production, then get caught accepting
foreign TP as a bribe.

They would call my scandal Charmingate .

But my fantasy of infamy aside, I have a well-grounded suspicion that
a universal totalitarian government would have little-to-no incentive
to even double ply things for us.

* Bad: V for Vendetta would be even more popular

V for Vendetta wasn’t a bad movie. I saw it, and I even liked it. But
for me it had the same fatal flaw as Napoleon Dynamite . I didn’t get
sick of it until I met the people who loved it.

Its fans covered dorm room walls in posters. The derailed decent class
discussions with references. Many of these fans even took things to an
entirely new level, donning that silly white mask in public as part of
public protest.

What has always kind of baffled me about these “V” inspired marches is
how out of context they can be. I imagine someone marching in defiance
of a totalitarian American government that stifles human value and
creativity has to walk past a decent number of indy coffee shops, art
museums, and liberal colleges. Things are still pretty good, compared
to the government in the film. Does our situation really seem that
similar to the movie?

Which is why I think one of the suckiest parts of a totalitarian
government would be the film’s villain being actualized. Every V for
Vendetta fan would be quivering with Christmas morning excitement. Do
we have enough room on this earth for all the new movie posters that
would come up? Can we make enough masks for all the new 13 year old
“hacktivists” that would take to the streets?

#+CAPTION: Foot soldiers by day. My Little Pony fans by night.
[[file:images/hacktivists.jpg]]

So those are the first things that come to mind when I imagine waking
up in a world like that.
