#+TITLE: Eyes Wide Shut

My wife and I are in the viscous throws of a full blown Netflix
documentary obsession. We don’t even screen these things anymore. We
just mash play and plunge head first into a three hour film about
God-knows-whatever we selected. Our queue is the most disharmonious
thing I have ever seen.

Tonight we watched the documentary Room 237 . It was a film outlining
fan theories for The Shining . Marissa and I were inspired by all the
crazy things people pulled out of this movie. If you enjoy cinematic
forensics , it’s worth a watch.

We were particularly amused by one viewers extrapolation of the whole
movie as an expression of guilt for Kubrick’s alleged participation in
faking the US moon landing.

But I’d rather not linger on it. We wrapped up the documentary and got
to thinking about the last time we watched The Shining . We both felt
we had taken it for granted.

So Marissa and I committed to watching every Kubrick movie we had
access too. Without further ado , here is our little summary of Eyes
Wide Shut.

* Alex's Thoughts

A racy start to Kubrick Week, 2014. There was more nakedness in the
first 10 minutes of the film than in the locker room of my local
Planet Fitness . With no doubt, we had to pause the movie and project
our doubts about what we committed to do. I was also a little
embarrassed that I had proudly tweeted /Hey everyone! I’m watching
Eyes Wide Shut!/ I had no idea the movie would be such a breast-fest .

I’m not a Tom Cruise fan either, and what I know about Kubrick is that
he has really high standards. That puzzled me at first, but I think I
can pardon his odd choice for a two hour, thirty-nine minute front
man.

Clearly sex is an important theme in the film. Beyond sex, infidelity
. Bill is haunted by visions of his wife cheating on him with a
sailor, and it drives him to explore his own promiscuity. He stumbles
into a weird orgy club and quickly finds he is in over his head.

In the end, something as small as the mask he wore conspicuously left
on his pillow beside his sleeping wife reduces him to crying (the ugly
kind). This is a long way to a fall for the sleek doctor we met at the
beginning of the movie chatting of super models. I took from it this -
never underestimate evil. No matter what you think you are capable of,
never dismiss the idea that it could come back to terrify you.

There were more clues that lay in the password to the weird orgy
party - Fidelio . Wikipedia says this is Beethoven’s only opera. The
story goes that a cocky politician is made a political prisoner, and
his wife has to disguise herself as a prison guard to rescue him. The
opera is a triumph to a wife’s strength and love . I could see a
parallel to Beethoven’s version when Bill’s wife forgave with the
strength that she did.

#+CAPTION: Alright, I forgive you. Just no more weird orgies.
[[./images/eyeswideshut.jpg]]

All in all, weird way to start off the week, and I am disappointed
there wasn’t more Nazi allusions and Moon landing related
conspiracies. I guess those will have to wait.

* Alex's Rating

Intriguing, but racy and a little drawn out. Also Tom Cruise
ugly-cries.

8.5/10

* Marissa's Thoughts

One of my favorite perks about married life is that we introduce each
other to a lot of things that we may not have normally tried on our
own. I will be the first to admit that my taste in movies is not
particularly refined. I normally like just about every movie I see,
but Alex has a much better movie palate and has been able to introduce
me to some truly fantastic movies. One of the more recent movies we
watched together that I hadn’t previously seen was the Shining. I know
i’m a little late with the classics, but of course I thought it was
great. After watching a documentary about some of the subliminal
messages that may be hidden within the Shining, called Room 237, we
were inspired to continue watching some of Stanley Kubrick's films,
starting with Eyes Wide Shut.

This movie struck me as being extremely unique. Normally movies are
either very relatable or not relatable at all. This movie seemed to
fall somewhere in the middle. Off of the top of my head I cannot think
of any other movies that seem to fall into the same space. Eyes Wide
Shut was relatable because it focused on a struggle that a large
majority of people have in one way or another at some point in their
lives: faithfulness. This could be faithfulness to a spouse, friend,
faith, or anything. Tom Cruise's’ character struggles with
faithfulness with his wife but in a very ‘real’ way. He starts out
thinking that he was the guy who could NEVER see himself falling into
that trap and was even encouraged in this perspective by his wifes’
own confessed problems with faithfulness to him. As the story
continues this ‘perfect guy’ perspective gives him some “self
deserved” leniency to explore more and more into some pretty shady
situations. This is where the story gets a little unrelatable. Some of
these situations he finds himself in are just a few fries short of a
sci-fi happy meal, if you catch my drift. But they are still realistic
and pretty interesting.

Once the movie was over I thought more about the story and I was
pretty won over by what I personally thought that it was trying to
convey. I think that we always see ourselves as the people who won’t
mess up. Obviously none of us try to seek out situations that will get
us in trouble. Yet in one way or another we always will end up in
sticky situations at some point, none of us are perfect. But the
specific perspective that this movie pulled on is that the slippery
slope into situations you never thought you would be in will always
seem sci-fi to you. This is because you never imagined yourself ever
getting to this point because we naturally are optimistic about our
abilities to make good decisions. So after thinking about this I think
that Kubricks’ point here was to try to provide a bridge of
relatability. By watching this story and understanding each step that
brought Tom Cruise to the point where he thought, “oh sh**, how did I
get here?” but still seeing how crazy of a point it lead him too, may
help us to understand that the same process can happen to us. Overall,
I really thought that this movie was probably an 8/10. It is
definitely rated R for a reason but it was very clever in helping us
see that we are not immune to making bad decisions. Hopefully
understanding this can just be one more weapon in our arsenal in
decreasing the number of bad choices we end up actually making.

* Marissa's Rating

An appropriately rated R movie that plays on something that we all
face at some point in a creative and intriguing way, overall a good
watch

8/10
