#+TITLE: Glass

I thought the next time I would write on Google, it would be some more
routine harping and teasing. I also thought it wouldn’t be so soon.

But I haven’t come to tease anyone this time. I am genuinely
confused. They must be lunatics. They are insane – and they also
currently handle my email for me.

/Ars Technica/ writes:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Many months after the release of Google Glass to developers and
early-adopters, Google is finally starting to suss out the inherent
social awkwardness of the product. The company has released an
official set of do’s and dont’s for participants in the Explorer
program, some of which amount to a reminder that manners and basic
courtesy still exist for the technologically elite.
#+END_QUOTE

An official set of [[https://sites.google.com/site/glasscomms/glass-explorers]["do's and dont's"]] . My god – I can hardly wait.

Before I walk you through the most arrogant document ever released,
let me first say that I have been perched at the edge of my [[http://www.ikea.com/us/en/catalog/products/10263779/][HISSMON]]
eagerly awaiting Google’s official response to months of public
torment for their serious undertaking of the controversial faceputer.

Half of me expected a cute webpage with a simple “Oops! We’re going to
go on to something a little more helpful.” The other half of me
expected this kind of document. See, being around engineers a lot, I
have started to notice how much energy we waste trying to convince the
user that they are wrong. Whenever a product is returned to the
drawing board, every egghead in the room needs to pass through all the
stages of grief before they can even consider opening up the hood
again. I find it funny, but equally humbling. I’m already starting to
notice that I do the same.

#+CAPTION: Now that Google refers to Glass-wearers as “Explorers”, the Dora chatroom I moderate has descended into chaos.
[[./images/dora.jpg]]

* Engineers are wrong

Every couple argues. At least once a month, I find myself stoking
petty flames between me and my SO by exercising a faulty
assumption. She’s not really frustrated with you. You just need to
explain to her that she is not upset . If you are taken back by how
preposterous that is, then congratulations – there is still hope for
you. You may after all live a happy life of effortless human
interface. For any engineers reading this, I’m going to be honest with
you – that statement was supposed to sound ridiculous. You can’t
convince people that they are not really frustrated. That is one thing
they will always be right about.

#+CAPTION: "I see you are trying to be passive aggressive. Want some help with that?"
[[./images/clippy.jpg]]

So watching a delicate prototype emerge from a loving research lab
only to be scorned by the greasy Internet community, I would only
expect Google to be under the same temptation. They don’t like wearing
Glass in public? They just aren’t using it right. We need to explain
to people how to behave in public.

And so begins the circus of the official Google do’s and don’ts. I
have linked to it, but I also pasted it into notepad, fearing Google
would wake from its fitfull stupour and take the announcement
down. Yes – it’s that bad.

* The DONT'S of Wearing Glass

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
DON’T Glass-out. Glass was built for short bursts of information and
interactions that allow you to quickly get back to doing the other
things you love. If you find yourself staring off into the prism for
long periods of time you’re probably looking pretty weird to the
people around you. So don’t read War and Peace on Glass. Things like
that are better done on bigger screens.
#+END_QUOTE

In other words, do you see that shiny glistening computer screen? Of
course you do – it’s covering up half of your eyeball. Try not to
stare at it. You may glance at it now and then for “short bursts of
time”, but don’t stare. Just behave how you would normally around a
solar eclipse. Remember – although Google made Glass to help you
better maintain personal communication with others around while still
keeping your digital communication active, you are going to have to
behave a little differently when things are hovering menacingly in
peripheral vision. I will reiterate – in order to reap the intended
benefit of Glass, you are going to have to change your behavior.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
DON’T Rock Glass while doing high-impact sports. Glass is a piece of
technology, so use common sense. Water skiing, bull riding or cage
fighting with Glass are probably not good ideas.
#+END_QUOTE

I know seeing the commercials of people frolicking in hot air balloons
, riding roller coasters, doing gymnastics, and skydiving may have
gotten you a little excited, but you are most definitely going to have
to give up your previous life of high impact sports. You do want to
rock Glass, right? Then give it a rest with all the moving
around. After all, you are basically wearing an unprotected, expensive
smart phone high up on your body. Beyond all the sports, you better
not go anywhere dangerous either. There’s no stopping anyone from just
yanking that pretty little machine right of your face and taking off
down the street . When in rough areas, you better place glass in your
pocket right next to your smartphone. Does Glass actually make phone
calls yet? Can we confirm that? I will reiterate, Glass is intended to
make your life easier. But you are going to have to live a bit less on
the active side if you want to reap the immense benefits of Glass.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
DON’T Wear it and expect to be ignored. Let’s face it, you’re gonna
get some questions. Be patient and explain that Glass has a lot of the
same features as a mobile phone (camera, maps, email, etc.). Also,
develop your own etiquette. If you’re worried about someone
interrupting that romantic dinner at a nice restaurant with a question
about Glass, just take it off and put it around the back of your neck
or in your bag.
#+END_QUOTE

We at Google are just going to be brutally honest here. We wanted
Glass to enhance the way you talk to your friends. We want you to be
able to read a tweet, check your email, and get right back to talking
with your buddy all without taking your eyes away from the
conversation.

But people are going to treat you differently. Some people just won’t
understand how much easier it is to focus on what your are saying to
them, even though you are equipped with a faceputer.

So you are going to have to improvise a bit. Since they will just be
focused on the fact that you are wearing a computer on your face, you
had better just talk about it. Show them all the things you can do
with Glass all without removing your lifeless, dead face from the dull
conversation about your new toy. I will reiterate – in order to
enhance the way you talk to people, you are going to have to talk
about Glass.

And in the rare occurrence that you and your glass-sporting self are
anywhere romantic, you had better just take it off. Place it in your
bag with all of your other electronics – you know – where society has
decided it is ok for them to reside while you are interfacing with
humans. I will reiterate – Glass is intended to enhance all meaningful
relationships you will have with human beings, but if you perchance
find yourself in a conversation that is far too meaningful for Glass,
remove it from your face temporarily. Also, you should think about
removing that relationship from your life. Clearly, it is disrupting
your new social glass-driven workflow.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
DON’T Be creepy or rude (aka, a “Glasshole”). Respect others and if
they have questions about Glass don’t get snappy. Be polite and
explain what Glass does and remember, a quick demo can go a long
way. In places where cell phone cameras aren’t allowed, the same rules
will apply to Glass. If you’re asked to turn your phone off, turn
Glass off as well. Breaking the rules or being rude will not get
businesses excited about Glass and will ruin it for other Explorers.
#+END_QUOTE

Ahhhhhhhhhhh. I can’t do it anymore. I can’t stay in character. You
have GOT to be kidding me. I cannot believe this thing is real. This
is the part in the document that I expected to be part of an elaborate
Jimmy Kimmel prank to be revealed next week.

NOT ONLY did Google have the audacity to recognize the existence of
the mocking coinage of “Glasshole”, but they were so smug to even
misquote it.

No, Google. A glasshole isn’t someone who wears Glass AND continuously
exhibits rude and creepy behavior.

A glasshole is simply someone who dared to wear Glass in public. No
one spots a Glass-wearer and says Hey – that guy is wearing
Glass. Let’s watch him for a minute and see if he behaves rudely –
then he is most certainly a Glasshole . You have already spotted one.

Google – if you are going to own up to the satire out there, make sure
next time you digest it completely. They actually took the time to
contort the slang into a more corporate friendly meaning.

* Papa Google may be getting senile

So what happened? I will enforce here that I am not a
negative-nancy. Google is great when it is good. But after the
systematic rape of the YouTube community, the gunpoint exodus to a
cardboard Google+ community, and now this delusional “fix” to Glass’s
lack of popularity, I can hear the funeral dirge with unmistakable
pitch-perfect clarity. I believe Google is growing senile. As their
backlog of solutions still in need of problems piles up, it’s becoming
clear that Google no longer knows what real problems look like.

When Google started as a company, it was all about fixing problems for
people. I saw Google as a young, ambitous company who sought to make
searching the vast web easier for people. When they grew unhappy with
the way email was done, they continued to shake the tech landscape up
and rolled their own wildly useful Gmail. When Google grew unhappy
with the selection of tools to browse the web, they bravely launched
Chrome, which I still happily use for personal web browing myself. For
years, Google was a breathe of fresh air in relieving the real
frustration of real people. It was easy to get excited about whatever
they were working on.

But in aging, greying years the questions Google was asking started to
feel much less relevant. How can a Gmail user interact with their
Google+ profile? How can a YouTube user post to their Google+ through
their Google phone? How can a Hangouts user hangout with Gmail users?
Things don’t even make sense anymore. Can we hang it up with all the
nauseating and obtrusive hurdles for the sake of brand-name
integration?

What I fear is happening with Google is that it has lost touch with
real people. What makes me say that? Too many of their ideas are
pungent with that overpowering board-room smell. There are too many
investments in bad ideas to allow anything to fail. Consequently,
Google has to convince us that they we are not actually frustrated
with them. We are just using things wrongly. If Google decides how we
should use their products, than why would we even be interested in the
first place?

Google continues to confuse me. I hope for their sake that I am not
the only one to ridicule the decision to publish "The Do's and Don't of
Glass".
