#+TITLE: Journal
#+AUTHOR: Alex Recker

* 2019

** 2019-07 July

*** 2019-07-02 Tuesday party, dumplings, and blogging

Dear Journal,

I had such a productive day yesterday.  Nothing feels as good as
putting together a to-do list and actually finishing it before the day
is done.  We're in full party planning mode for Rodney's birthday this
weekend.  I think we'll have fewer people this year, but something
tells me it will still be a really good time.  Smaller parties can be
more fun - certainly for me, as that would mean I just do less
floating around.

Yesterday, I also tooled around with my new blog format a bit more.  I
arrived at a template I like.  Now it's just a matter of writing
something that will parse journal entries.  My plan was to write an
external program in python or something, but I'm having a hard time
finding an org mode parsing library in anything other than elisp worth
its salt.  The options out there are pretty dismal.  So it's looking
like I'm just going to have to put my big boy pants on and figure out
how to do the filtering and templating all from elisp.  I was looking
to just get this thing out the door and start using it, but little
adventures in elisp are fun too.  Mostly, I'm looking forward to the
added challenge of writing public journal entries.  As I may have
mentioned before, not /all/ of them will be published - only those I
tag "public", just in case I need to rant or I'm just not writing
coherently that morning.

Today is a pretty big cooking day.  I'm going to be packing our cooler
for concert on the square tomorrow, provided my veggie dumplings work
out.  This will be the first recipe I've tried from the famous
"peaceful cuisine" YouTube channel.  Will it be as uneventful and
serene as the video?  Time will tell, but the recipe is so simple,
it's hard to imagine what could go wrong.  Maybe the dumplings will
explode once I drop them in hot water.  Maybe since they just have
cabbage, onion, and mushroom in them, they won't be filling and we'll
run out of them immediately.  Or maybe they'll taste wonderful, and
they'll join the ranks my tried and true recipes, earning the coveted
"vegetarian" tag - that's a very exclusive group.

Well, with the few minutes I have left this morning, I'm going to take
another wack at a blog function.  Let's have a great Tuesday!

*** 2019-07-03 Wednesday dumplings, ruby, and concert on the square

Dear Journal,

It's a beautiful morning today - the kind of morning where it's so
bright outside, it almost feels like you're being beckoned out of bed
to go make coffee and get going.  Yesterday's dumplings turned out
really good, and I just checked them a minute ago, despite cooling
down in the fridge, it looks like for the most part they didn't glob
up into one giant dumpling.  Making the dumplings also turned out to
be a fantastic and fulfilling two person job, and it's fun to see how
good you can get at rolling the little dough circles flat, or crimping
them together over the filling.  I think those are going to be really
tasty this evening.  I was planning on serving them cold right out of
the cooler with a bit of soy sauce mixed with rice vinegar.

As an aside, I'm really enjoying the challenge of making cooler
friendly vegetarian recipes.  It's really pushing me to try things I
normally wouldn't, and plus it's a great excuse to pig out on
Wednesday during lunch, knowing I'm getting a healthy home cooked
vegetarian dinner.  But let's be honest, we both know that the second
I get home, I extend the excuse and permit myself to wolf down a few
leftovers from the night before.  And right now there's a single taco
from taco bell with my name on it.

Work was a real bummer yesterday.  I spent all day trying to get
something to work, and it's sill not working.  I do my best to uphold
my personal belief that any programming language will work and you
should just keep the programming language tribalism to yourself, but
that being said, I just don't understand the point of 80% of the
mechanisms in ruby.  All the needless object oriented behavior and
stupid syntax sugar on everything just make it so painful to work
with.  I'm making a point to just shut up about it and get it done,
because I should know how to do this stuff.  And let's be honest, I've
had to do much worse.

Now I'm staring out the window trying to think of the worst
programming I've ever had to do, and I caught myself and decided I'd
rather be in a positive place.  Deep breaths.  Positive thoughts.

The only thing that matters is cooking, anyway.  Marissa and I sat
down the other day and made a game plan, a menu, and a grocery list.
Despite being on a holiday weekend, the guest list for Rodney's party
is filling up!  I think it will be a little more intimate this year,
but I'm expecting a handful of neighbors will swing by.

So today, I'm working from home.  Then we're all going to walk over to
glass nickel for lunch and a beer.  Then this evening, there's a
special concert on the square in which - word on the street - they're
going to be firing off a cannon during the 1812 overture.  I think
it's going to be a good day.

*** 2019-07-05 Friday july 4th, breakfast, python, stranger things and chores

Dear Journal,

Yesterday's holiday was pretty relaxing.  I managed to wake up about
an hour before everyone else, so I quickly took the car to the Jenny
Street market and picked up some bacon, eggs, and a jug of their
famous freshly squeezed orange juice.  Waking people up with the smell
of bacon is fun.  Also, I tried that little paper towel trick that
Chef John uses to dab up grease, and it worked beautifully with bacon,
so adding that to the playbook.  After breakfast, we picked up some
flowers and paint stuff for the dining room, and on the way home we
grabbed some Portillo's since we had been out and about for a while.
When we got home, we were pretty exhausted and Rod was getting in a
bad mood, so we decided to just take it easy for the rest of the day
and stay close to home.  To add to our case, this was also going to be
the last low-key day of the week for us, since we have the birthday
party and some friends staying the weekend.  I grilled a chicken and
made some cornbread, we put Rod to bed, I got a little time to write
code, and then Marissa and I stayed up just a little too late watching
the first Stranger Things episode.

Which was pretty amazing by the way.  I don't know why, but I'm always
reluctant to watch the new ones.  I never seem to remember how amazing
of a show it is, or have any desire to go back and re watch it.  I
need to re-calibrate, because that show is on another level.  Maybe it
layers on the 80s nostalgia a little thick, and it can be just a tad
pandering at times, but undeniably entertaining.  And a solid opener
to the season at that.

Today, I'm back to work in the morning, then working from home
starting around lunch time.  We have a ton of shopping to do this
evening for the party, and Marissa knows that I need serious emotional
support whenever I have to spend more that $70 at Hy-Vee.  After our
big shopping trip, we're going to make a special pre-party chores
list, then likely cook and clean into the wee hours of the night.

So that's what we're up to.  Besides the party, I mentioned I got a
little time in to code.  I'm working on a slackbot to help automate
things for us.  First task will be a mailing address manager.  We have
everyone's address between our google accounts, but there's just too
much information in google, and it's difficult to share contacts.  So
the idea is to write a little slackbot that can fetch anyone's contact
info on command, dump lists of people, sort them by tags (e.g. #rodney
#birthday), and maybe even automatically send out emails that request
updated info.

I'm also kicking around the idea of moving our chores to a slackbot
system.  I started out keeping all my chores in org mode using
reoccurring tasks, but Marissa wanted to get in on the fun, so I added
some for her, and now I'm kind of acting as a chore dispatcher.  So
there's potential for improvement there: I love being relied on to
keep routines, but I love automating them even more.

Out of what can be best described as delusional vanity, I'm attempting
to make the whole thing with no 3rd party dependencies - just 100%
python.  Currently, my strategy is just to recreate some bare bones
renditions of packages I'd normally install.  Yesterday I managed to
get a `rest` module finished for web requests and a `shell` module for
running shell commands.  The standard library for python is serious
stuff, I'm not writing nearly as much code as I thought I'd be doing.
We'll see how that holds up when it comes time to write a web server.

So that's what I got.  OK, time to get psyched up for party weekend.

*** 2019-07-06 Saturday party and cooking

Dear Journal,

After cooking and cleaning the house into the wee hours of the night,
it felt good to sleep, and to wake up to a fresh hot pot of coffee.
Marissa stuck it out a little longer, and when I got up this morning,
I was tickled to see the caution tape, work zone signs, and a big
chocolate cake assembled in the fridge.  We had a good time prepping
everything yesterday.  We listened to just about every album I had on
my phone, and we even rewarded our efforts with a late night order
from Domino's.

Rodney is pretty excited for the party.  It was gratifying to watch
him confusedly wander around the house looking at all the decorations
and food, quietly whispering /wow/ to himself.  At the moment, he
seems most excited about the construction vests and hard hats he
ordered.  He even brought me up a hat and vest to try on as I was
climbing into the shower.  And when a three year old gives you a hard
hat and a safety vest, you don't question it - you just drop
everything you're doing and put them on.

This morning, just have a few more things to do.  I'm picking up the
keg from the liquor store, finishing some laundry, then I'm going to
start cutting up some food.  Last night's batch of gazpacho turned out
really good, as did the burger meat.  I used a scale to remove all the
guess work, and borrowing from my favorite meatball recipe, I added
beaten eggs, breadcrumbs, and garlic to the meat before making the
patties.  I had about a half ounce of ground beef left over, so as a
taste test I fried it up in some peanut oil, making what must have
been the smallest hamburger in the universe.

Alrighty - so that's what I got this morning.  Let's have a birthday
party, and if you're reading this and you're planning on attending, I
can't wait to see you there!

*** 2019-07-07 Sunday birthday, party, and hangover

Dear Journal,

Well, Rodney's birthday party was a wonderful time.  Today he came
down the stairs after his nap and said "where did friends go?".  Maybe
I'm reading into it too much, but I was impressed that /friends/ were
his first thought, especially since he had a living room full of new
toys to play with and a fridge filled with chocolate cake.  "You're
friends went home, but they'll be back later, dude" I explained.
Construction may have been the party theme, but /friends/ was the real
theme.

I normally write these in the morning, but I was battling a serious
hangover, making breakfast, and trying to get everyone out the door
for church on time.  Our good friends Adam and Sam spent the night.
It was so wonderful to catch up with them and meet their puppy, and
they were very gracious to rush out the door with us this morning.
After church, we went to Graze with Mimi and Poppa, and a few bites of
their kimchi hash was enough to quicken my party-weary body with life
again.  Well, maybe /quicken/ is an inaccurate.  It put me in a good
enough mood to take a long nap.  A good nap.  The kind that's a full
REM cycle, and since it's the middle of the way you have weird dreams
and it feels like you're coming out of a cryogenic sleep in deep
space.

Marissa and I reflected on the party as we sat down to eat the first
of many burgers in our backlog of party leftovers.  We're so grateful
for everyone in Rodney's life.  Did you know that most people's first
memory is their third birthday party?  That's true for me, my wife,
and most people I ask.  If it's true for Rodney, I can't think of a
better first memory.  Thanks for showing up and making the party
awesome, friends, and possibly being part of his first human memory.

Here's to a great birthday!  Time to binge watch stranger things.  And
maybe break into some of that leftover cake.

*** 2019-07-08 Monday strangerthings, automation, and edgar

Good Morning!

I'm feeling refreshed today, and eager to get back to work.  I took a
pretty long nap yesterday, which allowed us to stay up a bit and knock
out some episodes of /Stranger Things/.  Speaking of Stranger Things,
I couldn't be happier watching season 3 right now.  I have some
thoughts:

1. I love the contrast between how little the characters know about
   what's going on with how much the viewer knows what's going on,
   observing all the story lines.  You can stay a few steps ahead of
   all the characters and draw conclusions before they do, which
   creates a lot of dramatic irony and suspense.
2. I love the /Dungeons and Dragons/ parallels.  Last night I noticed
   that if you pay attention to Will's /Dungeons and Dragons/
   campaigns, they usually describe what's going on in the season,
   e.g. "the peaceful town is threatened by a dark force coming out of
   the swamp."  I'm not that familiar with /Dungeons and Dragons/, but
   each of the characters in the show kind of plays out like a
   character with their own special skills.
3. Winona Ryder is really good at playing a mom from Indiana who flips
   out over weird things happening to her appliances.  This is the
   only spoiler I'll give, but magnets on her fridge are the new
   Christmas lights.

So yeah, I couldn't be happier with this season.  Season 1 & 2 were
good, but I just wasn't gaga over the show until now.

So what else is going on.  Ah, yesterday I hacked on my blog code a
bit.  I added a generated [[https://www.alexrecker.com/feed.xml][feed.xml]] file.  I set up an IFTTT service to
post to my family's slack channel whenever I added a new entry, and
I'm also thinking about hooking it into twitter.  With another side
project almost completely wrapped up, my head is filled with all kinds
of fun ideas to work on.  I think next I might hack some more on
"edgar".  The idea is pretty out there, but "edgar" is a home
automation assistant that you talk to with consoles around the house.
At first he'll have a very simple shell in which you can launch
modules.  I came up with something like this last night.

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
EDGAR> groceries
Launching groceries module.
Available commands: add delete show exit
GROCERIES> show
black garbage bags
gallon ziploc bags
sippies cups
GROCERIES> add milk, eggs, butter
Added milk, eggs, butter
#+END_EXAMPLE

I have plenty of ideas for modules, but a grocery list would be a good
one to start with.  If I get a chance to work on it tonight, I'll be
sure to bring back some updates.

Alright, time to get going.  Let's have a wonderful day!

*** 2019-07-09 Tuesday strangerthings, blippi, zoo, work, and biergarten

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  It was Rodney's actual birthday, so
I worked from home in the morning, then took the family out to Ian's
Pizza for lunch.  We walked around the square a bit, then Marissa and
Rodney dropped me off at work and went to the zoo.  Apparently Rodney
is really into the monkeys now, as well as yelling "WAKE UP" at all
the animals that were sleeping.  When I got home from work, he showed
me some new toys they opened together, then we crashed on the couch a
bit and watched an episode of Blippi.  There's a new Blippi episode
out where he learns to skateboard with Shaun White, and like most
Blippi episodes that over-feature a celebrity, the whole thing is very
uncomfortable and I recommend you watch it.  After eating some dinner,
we walked to the Biergarten and had a drink while Rod played in the
sandbox.  Things got a little tense when another kid commandeered
Rodney's newly gifted skid steer we brought from home to test drive in
the sandbox.  Emotions ran hot, but we settled on letting him take
home one of Rodney's plastic hard hats.  That seemed to smooth things
over.

After putting Rodney to bed, I had a bunch of chores to catch up on,
and I had a time lapse to make for Marissa.  I still feel like I'm
catching up on things after getting ready for the party.  The routine
is settling back in, but I'm still not mentally back yet, and I'm
having a hard time focusing on things.  The last thing we did before
going to bed was watch three episodes of Stranger Things.  I know I
was raving about how this season was the best, but it took a really
weird turn.  I don't think this counts as a spoiler, but the writers
thought it would be a good idea to wedge a plot line into the middle
of things that can only be described as a "kid-friendly Austin
Powers".  Let's say this, how about a week from today, I call a
"weapons free" on the Stranger Things spoilers and go into detail.
Marissa and I spent at least a good half hour talking about it and I'm
dying to share, so consider this your warning, reader.

So what else is going on... I've got work on my mind.  Next week, our
summer interns are joining my team and I'm in charge of handing out
work to them.  I set up all the tasks about a month and a half ago and
was feeling pretty good about it, but after reviewing everything
yesterday, it's clear to me that it's not enough to fill seven weeks.
I'm hoping I can get some time today to focus on padding it - padding
it with /meaningful/ work, of course.

So today is Tuesday, and normally what I do on Tuesday night is find a
new vegetarian recipe to enjoy with our good friends on Wednesday
night at Madison's concert on the square.  I haven't made up my mind
yet, so I was hoping to find a free twenty minutes to shop around for
a recipe.  I'd love to do vegetarian buddha bowls, but honestly my
sticky rice skills are pretty abysmal, and sticky rice is kind of the
star of the show with that one.

Let's pick a theme for this hot, sunny Tuesday.  I'm going to go with
"back on track".  I'm going to get to work, put some Frank Ocean on,
and just crush it until lunch.  Maybe I'll take a quick walk to grab a
bite to eat, then I'll sit somewhere and pick a recipe to cook
tonight.  I'm all caught up on chores, so we're good on that front,
but after throwing a big party our kitchen could use some love, so I
might go above and beyond tonight.

Here's to Tuesday.  Hope we all get back on track today.

*** 2019-07-10 Wednesday cooking, babish, wednesdays, and concert on the square

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was very productive.  I think I finally got the catch-up day
that I needed.  In the morning I beefed up the first few weeks of
planned work for the summer interns, then I made an agenda for our
first meeting.  I went for a quick trot around the square and picked
up some food from a food cart.  It was a new one that I have never
tried - a food card called "braisen hussies" or something like that.
I brought the braised pork rice bowl back to my desk.  It was pretty
good, the black beans and rice were really tasty, and it even had
little bits of pork rinds sprinkled throughout.  While I ate my lunch,
I watched some recipe videos to plan dinner and pick something to make
for Wednesday's concert on the square.

At first, I was thinking about making [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0G5Y2SOW0c][Babish's Chicken Quesadillas]].  I
made them once before, and although they were a little involved, they
turned out pretty good.  But half way through the watching the video
again, it was starting to look like a poor choice for Tuesday night.
It's a solid recipe, but cutting and marinating chicken, frying the
chicken, dicing and sauteeing vegetables, assembling the quesadillas,
and then finally frying the quesadillas sounded like too much work for
a weekday, especially since I had another meal to cook afterwards.  In
the end, I decided to just toss some cod fillets in breadcrumbs and
fry them for dinner.  For concert on the square, I had a fun idea to
make vegetarian crunchwrap supremes.  They have this meatless chorizo
made from soy that looks (and tastes) a lot like ground beef, and
getting vegetarian refried beans is just a matter of finding a can
without lard listed in the ingredients.  I set out all the
ingredients, including the meatless chorizo which I jazzed up with
some taco seasoning and olive oil, and Marissa formed them into little
tortilla polygons while I made some guac.

After carefully setting the tower of crunchwrap supremes in the
fridge, we settled in on the couch to knock out another episode of
Stranger Things.  We watched the second to last episode, and as
expected, there were some more odd choices in the plot line that had
us really scratching our heads.  I'll also add that there are some
serious pacing issues - for being the second to last episode in the
season, things got really slow all of the sudden.

Today, I'm working from home.  This will be my last work-from-home
Wednesday in a while, so I'll be sure to savor this one and get a lot
of work done.  Marissa has agility class this morning, so it's just me
and the Rod man hanging out.  After she gets back, we're going to walk
to Glass Nickel for lunch and a beer.  Usually after lunch on
Wednesdays, Marissa and Rodney take a nap on the couch and I finish
the workday while playing a movie in the background.  Today, I'm
feeling /Mad Max: Fury Road/.  Seriously, that's a movie that I feel
like watching any time, any day.  At some point in the afternoon
before we leave for concert on the square, I have to fry those little
tortilla polygons in butter.  And maybe eat one.  As - you know -
quality assurance.  What kind of lunatic would bring food to share
without tasting it first?

So that's Wednesday.  I can't believe the week is already half over.
Here's to a fast week and a slow weekend.  OK team, let's have a
Wednesday!

*** 2019-07-11 Thursday books, reading, and comics

Dear Journal,

I really need to read more.  I've been staring at my bookshelf for the
past few minutes, waiting for the coffee to kick in, and I got looking
at the books on my shelf.  Most of the books are non-fiction.  I have
a whole bunch of textbooks from school that I kept around, as well as
a handful of programming books.  I've always had a hard time getting
into non-fiction, and I think that's because I consider time spent on
a bad piece of fiction is time wasted.  Text books, on the other hand,
are a little more forgiving.  Even if the book is not great at
explaining things and you are having a hard time connecting to the
examples, I usually still benefit from just spending time trying to
learn something.  I think sometime last year I tried to learn C.  I
picked up this book from Barnes and Noble called "learn C in 30 days".
You can do amazing things in C, and a lot of really smart people
demonstrate that.  And after reading the book and working through the
examples, I wouldn't claim to be an expert.  But I think I learned
just enough C to decide that I don't like it.

/Learn C in 30 Days/ is leaning up against Peter Siebel's /Practical
Common Lisp/.  I think I only battled half way through the book before
it fell by the wayside.  It was good, but the ironic thing is it just
wasn't feeling very practical.  I stopped trying to write Lisp because
it was too hard to find examples of Lisp that were actually
accomplishing something other than teaching someone how to write lisp.

All that to say is I feel like I need a new book.  Speaking of books,
my sister told me yesterday that my mom has had her Amazon account
since 1998, and you can still look all the way back in the purchase
history to see what books we were buying (you know, back when Amazon
just sold books).  One of my first purchases from Amazon through my
mom's account was a book called /The Mars Diaries/.  It was a book
series about this kid who was raised on a human Mars colony and, when
he was a baby, had surgery that would allow him to control robots.
There were five of them in the series, I think, and I read them all.
You know for someone who hates fiction, I really miss the feeling of
getting swept up into that story.

I also have a few comic books on the bottom shelf.  In college, I
tried to really get into them.  I had a few when I was really little,
and I guess I was trying to use that as my foot-in-the-door to get
into a new hobby later in life.  I bought those on Amazon.  A few
years ago, I tried perusing the comic book store near our house.  I
attempted to talk shop with the guy and throw around my knowledge of
how they had recently completely rebooted the Spider-Man storyline by
allowing mephisto to reset the timeline and send an older, married
Peter Parker back to high school to a time where he never met Mary
Jane, but the classic smug comic book store guy (who honestly could
have been right out of a Simpson's episode) quickly sniffed me out as
an imposter and informed me my information was at least a decade old,
and Miles Morales was Spider-Man now.

Well I'm out of time.  I got to get to work.  Let's have a great
Thursday, everyone!

*** 2019-07-12 Friday fish, kibbeling, and brussel sprouts

Dear Journal,

One of my favorite things to make is [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kibbeling][kibbeling]], and I think I
perfected it last night.  We all went to Hy-Vee after work to pick up
a few different types of fish.  I bought about twenty bucks worth of
fish, first going for the off-cuts of cod and halibut, then padding
the rest with just shrimp.  I think the people working behind the meat
counter appreciate getting rid of their off-cuts and leftovers -
they're always sitting right on top and it must be nice to not have to
cut and weight it.

When we got home, I added two cups of milk, a half cup of Lemon La
Croix (I think that's the secret weapon), a pinch of salt and pepper,
and two eggs to a bowl and mixed with a whisk.  I then added the
flour.  I forgot to measure how much flour went in.  But it didn't
feel too necessary, since you can just add it in small portions,
incorporate it, then decide for yourself if the batter is thick
enough.  Personally, I like it thin and runny, even thinner than
pancake batter.  I set aside the batter to rest in the fridge.

I rinsed and dried the fish, then cut it into small chunks (since they
tend to fry better).  Marissa peeled the shrimp.  I added all the fish
chunks and shrimp to a bowl and tossed it with a bit of salt and
pepper.  I filled a dutch oven with about an inch and a half of peanut
oil and turned the burner on.  While I was waiting for the heat to get
to 320-330F, I made the dipping sauce - which is so easy and
delicious.  It's just a bowl of mayo, the juice of one lemon, a bunch
of chopped dill, and two grated cloves of garlic.  Seriously, we
didn't need to even add any seasoning.  I might just start throwing
this sauce on everything.

When the oil was hot enough, I started doing the fish chunks in
batches - dunking them in the batter and letting the excess fall off,
then slowly lowering them into oil.  I panicked as the fish pieces
started sticking to the bottom of the pan, but then I remembered
that's fine at first, and that when they're done cooking they pretty
much float up to the top on their own.  The other nice thing about
frying fish in small pieces is you can use a pair of chopsticks to
flip and maneuver them around the hot oil.  After about two minutes, I
nudged each piece with the side of a chopstick, and if it floated to
the surface and gave off a flurry of tiny bubbles, I removed it from
the oil and moved it to a paper towel.

Another thing to look out for is keeping the oil hot enough.  After
each wave of fish, the temperature will drop - which is fine, you just
have to wait a few seconds between batches to let it rise again.  I
looked into it later, and it turns out that's a basic technique of
frying food, but I'm kind of new to this and had to rediscover it for
myself.

After the last batch of fish went in, I rinsed a bowl of brussel
sprouts and added them to boiling water, which was seasoned with sea
salt and lemon juice.  That's a play I took from French Cooking
Academy's [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RM506j3tgY4][blanched asparagus recipe]], except it works even better on
brussel sprouts because you can pop them in your mouth as a taste test
while they boil.

Rodney, Marissa, and I sat around the table and munched on fish.
Rodney was laughing really hard at the dogs while they were circling
the table, and it felt good to laugh with him.  After dinner we went
for a walk to check out the new construction machines parked on our
street to repave Oak street.  It was a good day.

*** 2019-07-14 Sunday kalahari

It's been a wonderful weekend - so great that I've barely spent any
time on the computer.  We all went to Kalahari water park on Saturday.
We were all pretty excited - even Rodney had been talking about
/waterslides/ all week leading up to it.  So expectations were high.
I started to get pumped for it myself.  We'd be watching a toddler,
but maybe he would have so much fun that I'd get to do a few
waterslides too.

Things started to get rough while we were checking in.  Rodney wasn't
a fan of the plastic bracelet he had to wear, and threw a modest,
miniature tantrum in the lobby.  After regaining our composure and
heading through the locker rooms, reality continued to set in.  I
think Rodney expected waterslides, but not a busy water park with kids
and parents running around.  So he was a little weireded out, and
seemed hesitant to enjoy himself in front of everyone.  Marissa and I
did our best to kind of ease him into it, which culminated into a
coerced ride on the lazy river.  "Easy", I thought - "we just kind of
force him onto a tube and by the time the leisurely current carries us
away, the child wonderment will take over and he'll be cool with it."

He was not cool with it.  My kid is not really a /shrieker/ - the kind
that can command a whole waterpark with just one scream - but he just
visibly looked anxious and upset, and every now and then he would
loudly announce "OK ALL DONE, OK ALL DONE, NO MORE PLEASE".  Honestly,
I'd rather be sitting in a tube with a screaming toddler that just
wasn't having it.  Somehow I felt even guiltier sitting with a
patient, but anxious toddler trying to diplomatically negotiate his
release from this weird punishment based on water and fear.

We dried off and decided to eat some lunch.  We needed some quiet time
to regroup, and perhaps lower our expectations a bit.  We found a
booth in the food court and opened the PB&J's, pringles, sliced bell
peppers, and chocolate rice krispies I packed for us.  I'm aware
you're not supposed to bring your own food into Kalahari, but it's a
matter of principal.  I enjoy sticking it to these kinds of places in
that way, but it also helps that nobody who works there actually
cares.  Plus, I probably looked like I was just waiting for a fight.
I wouldn't have said something to me either.

So we're in the food court nibbling on food.  Rodney was enjoying the
quiet time away from the crowd, and Marissa and I were lowering our
expectations about how much fun we were going to squeeze out of these
fifty dollar tickets.  "Maybe we just need to loosen up a bit," I
said.  "We should treat ourselves to a drink from the bar."  It
sounded like a good idea.  Rodney wasn't really digging the pool, and
people were walking around with these really big colorful alcoholic
slurpee things.  We ordered two from the bartender while Rodney waited
patiently by a little fountain.  "We'll take two of those fruit
things," I said.  "The big one, right?" asked the bartender.  "Ugh,
sure that's fine."

The bartender had our drinks ready in about four seconds.  It looked
like a bucket of ice, a bunch of sugary syrup, and maybe a half shot
of cheap vodka.  He turned to me and said "sixteen", asking for my
card.  I was relieved because the price for these silly drinks wasn't
posted anywhere, and I could barely hear the guy and was honestly
expecting to pay ten bucks each.  But eight bucks was just barely
acceptable.

He took my card and produced a receipt.  The total was /sixty/
dollars.  The drinks were thirty bucks each.  We immediately flagged
the guy down and asked for a refund.  He was reluctant, and really
tried to sell us on them.  "You get to keep the cup", he said.
Marissa put her foot down - "we don't want these and we want our money
back.  We didn't know how expensive they were, sorry."  The bartender
went to the register to revert the charge.  Marissa quickly grabbed
the drink and took several sips before they were confiscated.

At this point, we were feeling pretty defeated, and just decided to
wander a little further into the park.  We found a basketball hoop and
a kiddie pool with about a foot of water.  Rodney really likes
basketball, so he got pretty into it and started shooting hoops with
some other kids.  Playing basketball got him excited about everything
else, and all of the sudden he wanted to run into a little water
jungle gym that had slides running out of it.  He did a few slides,
gained his confidence, and eventually climbed to the very top of the
jungle gym.  There were these really big slides coming out of the top.
Rodney started saying "waterslide pleese", and I was really surprised
by that because we were about three floors up and the slides looked
pretty big.  I wasn't even sure if he was big enough.

We walked up to the lifeguard sitting at the top and I asked "is he
big enough to ride these".  The lifeguard nodded, then went back to
staring off into space.  I guess we were good to go.  I made a quick
plan with Marissa so she would meet me at the bottom.  Rodney sat down
at the top of the slide, and I knelt down to prepare him for it.  I
think I was more scared than he was, because half way into my
briefing, he lunged forward and flung himself into the tube.  I felt a
mix of worry, pride, and amusement watching his little body spin,
bounce, and splash all the way to the bottom.  Marissa's mouth was
wide open when he hit the water - we were both in complete disbelief.

We went down every slide in the jungle gym.  We even started to take
shifts so either Marissa or I could take a break and do a bigger
slide.  My favorite was the /screaming hyena/.  You stand in a tube,
and the floor drops, sending you into a completely vertical slide that
doesn't even touch your body until halfway down.  I talked Marissa
into trying it (without telling her what to expect of course), and
Rodney and I waited for her at the bottom.

So Kalahari was a success after all.  Things were looking pretty
dismal, hitting a lowpoint when we were almost conned into spending
$60 on a slurpee.  But the timeless magic of waterslides were there
all along, and not even my son could resist.  Waterslides were also a
real lesson in letting go.  I don't think of myself as a helicopter
parent, which is why I didn't expect to feel fear as my son was
climbing into a giant yellow water slide.

When we got home, Marissa and Rodney slept.  I walked to the grocery
store and picked up steaks, potatoes, and corn on the cob.  I slowly
roasted the potatoes on the grill, seared the steaks, then while
everything rested I blistered the corn.  It was a good day.

*** 2019-07-15 Monday work, busy, hotsauce, and productive

Dear Journal,

Last weekend was great.  It was filled with good food, good family
time, and a lot of relaxation.  Kalahari was a success, and I really
enjoyed grilling this weekend.  Oh, and I even got some time to code
yesterday while Rodney took a nap.

I'm glad I got some good relaxation time in, because frankly this week
at work is going to be a crazy.  Today, the summer interns are joining
our team, and I'm handing out work to them.  I'm also on ticket duty
this week, which means I'll be fielding questions in our team's slack
channel during the day and on call in the evenings - which isn't
terrible, it's just a different kind of work.  It's also goals week,
which means I'm drafting up my professional goals for the last half of
the year and working to get them approved.

So there's a lot going on.  I was anticipating the craziness, and I'm
actually fine with it.  I like having busy weeks like this every now
and then, because it just makes the weekend that much more awesome.
Plus, the momentum of a busy work week usually makes its way into
chores and side projects - as long as I'm hustling at work, I may as
well hustle at home.

Ugh.  Here's a free tip - never eat hot sauce before bed.  Last night,
Marissa and I stayed up watching /Hot Ones/, and I got all excited
about hot sauce and decided to eat a big glob of "The Last Dab" on a
cracker.  I woke up this morning feeling like there was a car battery
sitting in my stomach.  You know what the scary thing is?  I think
some hot sauces get even meaner as they continue to sit on the shelf.
I don't remember that one being so feisty - especially after it makes
it to the stomach.  Why do I do these things?

So where was I - ah, the busy work week.  To sum up, bring it on.
I've got good music to listen to, good coffee to drink, and I just
rewrote my Emacs configs over the weekend for peak efficiency.

OK, let's do this!  Let's have a productive week.

*** 2019-07-16 Tuesday anger and patience

Dear Journal,

Earlier in the summer I decided to do something about my anger.  I
would never have described myself as an angry person, but for some
reason, every now and then, I would just explode over small things,
and it bothered me, and I wanted to find the source.

I read a tip online that said to keep an "anger journal".  Every time
you lose your temper, write down where you were, what the trigger was,
what thoughts were going through your head, and the people affected.
Here's one of the milder entries.

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
- Trigger :: Video games
- Location :: Living Room
- People :: Marissa, Ollie, Ziggy
- Thoughts :: These people didn't even try their own game.
- Events :: Was playing Skate 3, and I got frustrated at the
            repetitive laundry list of objectives I had to complete.
            Started ranting about how lazy the developers were and got
            too angry about it.  Ollie got scared.
#+END_EXAMPLE

The idea is after a while, you can observe a pattern to the outbursts,
and hopefully be able to anticipate them before heading into a
situation that usually triggers you.  From May to June of this summer,
I logged ten outbursts, and they all in one way or another were
triggered by something that didn't work as advertised: software, a new
recipe, a video game, not being able to find something, etc.  It only
took a month to observe a pattern: something I was working with would
fail my expectations, then I would blame something.

I learned from keeping an anger journal that I have problems with
patience.  I don't like to wait around for things.  I don't like when
things get in my way.  And I definitely don't like when things don't
work the way they should.  Video games should be enjoyable.  Recipes
should be practical.  Software should be reliable.  The cycle of blame
that would usually follow was very toxic.  It took me a while to learn
the tough lesson that losing your temper around people has
consequences.  In fact, if not for the /who was affected by this/
field, my anger journal would be a light hearted comedy about a
buffoon learning to cook and yelling at a computer.  But what you say
to people matters, and they remember when you blame them for things.

I've made it a few weeks without having to add anything to the anger
log.  I can now anticipate frustrating situations, and I deal with
them by taking a step back and saying to myself "this may not work
very well, and that's OK".

A lack of patience, weirdly, has been kind of a motivator for me most
of my life.  Because I don't like to wait around for things, I'm a
fast learner, I like to automate things, and I'm never satisfied with
multi-tasking.  But it's clear to me that learning patience is
important, not just for the people around me, but because I'm missing
out on a lot of things in life because I'm not willing to wait for
them.

Let's practice patience today.

*** 2019-07-17 Wednesday concert on the square, castiron, stuffing, french toast

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  The interns and I are clicking
pretty well, and by gosh are they smart.  Aside from the stand-ups in
the morning, they pretty much just do their own thing all day.  I had
a few meetings in the morning, then I heated up some leftover stamppot
for lunch.  In the afternoon, I picked off a few tickets from our
backlog.

On the way home from work, Marissa told me that we were going to
concert on the square after all.  We were planning on heading to a
goodbye party for some agility friends in Rockford, but our car's air
conditioning is broken, and Marissa driving it around all day in the
hot summer weather must have inspired the change of plans.  So I had
to quickly plan a meal to bring to the concert on the bus ride on the
way home.

It was pretty short notice, but I think it turned out pretty well.  I
made a stuffing featured in Stefan's Oefs Chimay that used butter,
shallots, and diced mushrooms.  Once all the cutting was complete, the
recipe was very easy, as I just needed to let the water evaporate off
of the mushrooms.  A few minutes in, it looks like a bit wet disaster,
but slowly over about twenty minutes the stuffing dries, concentrating
the flavors and leaving a much more appetizing texture.

Once the stuffing cooled, I hard boiled a half dozen eggs and popped
the yolks out, then I mashed them into the stuffing.  I added some
chopped bacon as well.  Lastly, I halved a few bell peppers, hallowed
them out, and filled them.  My only regret was not making enough
stuffing.  Throwing everything into the pot, it looked like I had
enough food to feed several people, but man do those mushrooms just
shrink up when they lose their water!  I barely had enough for a taste
test.

In other kitchen news, we bought a twelve inch cast iron skillet, and
I think I'm in love.  It can get really hot, obviously, but yesterday
I was reading about all the advantages of cast iron, and they're
pretty compelling.  Did you know they form their own natural non stick
surface?  If you expose oils to eat beyond their smoke point (which is
easy to do, because cast iron heats up like a freakin' meteor), they
break down, polymerize, and bond to the metal itself.  A cast iron
skillet should be able to fry an egg without anything sticking.
They're also virtually indestructible, and even the most hideous,
rusted, neglected cast iron ware can be restored anew by stripping it
with oven cleaner.

And cleaning it isn't as bad as I thought.  You can wash it in the
sink with soap and hot water.  And after you pat it down with a towel,
you just need to leave it on the hot stove for a minute or two to heat
away any excess water.  Once it cools down, you can just wipe it down
with a little bit of mineral oil.

Last night, after frying the bacon for the stuffing, Marissa slacked
me a message asking me if I was down for making some french toast as a
snack, and of course I was.  I will literally make french toast for
anyone that asks at any hour of the day.  Plus, it was another excuse
to bust out the cast iron skillet.  The cast iron worked beautifully,
I feel like I was able to really smell the eggs and the milk while
they browned in the butter.

Today should be a pretty good day.  I'm heading into the office so I
can hang out with the interns.  Our team's ticket duty board is in a
pretty good state, so I think I have the bandwidth to work on
something a little more substantive.  And after work, we're going to
enjoy some stuffed red peppers at concert on the square.  And if
you're reading this, I hope you have a good day too.

*** 2019-07-18 Thursday sleeping in, interns, and frenchcooking

Dear Journal,

Mid day journal entry today!  This morning I woke up at 8AM on the
dot, which is normally when I'm outside waiting for the #15 bus.  I
didn't know I still had the capacity to sleep through my alarm.  My
phone is set to play /Solo Reprise/ at 6:30AM every weekday, and
normally hearing Andre 3000 yell /AYYYYYyyyy/ makes me immediately sit
up.  But not today - I got a solid eight hours of sleep and woke up
feeling suspiciously well-rested.

I still managed to shower, feed the dogs, brew a pot of coffee for
Marissa, and make the slightly later 8:19 bus.  One of the nice things
about living on an isthmus is that all the bus routes converge on the
same skinny strip of land, so from 8:00 to 8:30 I have plenty of lines
to choose from.  But oversleeping just throws everything off for the
rest of the day.  You can still drink coffee, check your email, review
your notes, write in your journal, and do everything else you'd
normally do if you were on time, but the whole day is just /off/,
isn't it?  It's feels like I'm faking it.

Well whether I'm faking it or not, I'm still getting work done this
morning.  The interns and I are starting to work on some Hashicorp
vault demonstrations.  We've hit some road blocks, but all in all I
think we're making good progress, and we'll have something neat to
show off at the demo this Friday afternoon.

What else is going on - ah, the stuffed peppers turned out great!
Sometimes a recipe is so good, it just finishes itself, or becomes
impossible to mess up.  The stuffing made from butter, shallots, and
chopped mushrooms had a life of its own - oozing and imbuing
deliciousness into whatever it touched.  I popped them into the oven
for about 30 minutes before we left for the concert, and the whole
house smelled like the a French cottage.  Brace for a /hot take/, but
I think those French are really onto something.  Shout out to [[https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0lG3Ihe4LGV851lODRIS5g][French
Cooking Academy]] for the solid instruction.

Today should be pretty low key.  I'm going to finish my lunch, finish
out the work day, then I'm taking the Rod man to Hy-Vee to pick up
stuff to make spaghetti and meatballs.  I've got some delicious red
sauce hanging out in the back of my fridge, and this is the last day
to use it before it falls into /iffy/ territory.

If you're out there, and you too accidentally got a full night's
sleep, let's take advantage of the surplus of energy and attack the
rest of the day - no matter how irregular it feels.  Nobody else knows
you slept in, do they?

*** 2019-07-19 Friday disney, sega, and lion king

Dear Journal,

We made it to Friday!  It's been a pretty crazy week filled with
ticket duty, working with interns, cooking, video editing, chores,
journaling, and over-sleeping, but we've finally arrived at Friday and
are at the precipice of a long, relaxing weekend.  Tonight, Marissa,
Rodney, and I are going to see the new lion king.  Not going to lie to
you, our collective expectations are low.  Marissa, being the biggest
lion king fan between the three of us, is worried her expectations are
not going to be met, especially hearing about the CGI, and all the
changes they made to the set list and the lyrics, etc.  Me and
Rodney's expectations are a little lower - as long as we see at least
a few lions and get to eat a big bucket of popcorn, we'll have a good
time.

I feel like I'm one of the few children that doesn't have a special
emotional connection to the Lion King.  I swear to you, I don't think
I sat down and watched the movie beginning to end until I was in my
twenties.  Don't get me wrong - I knew all about it.  I used to play
the video game on the SEGA genesis, but I hated it.  The game was
sadistically difficult.  Even the first level where you play as a
young Simba, rolling and frolicking around pride rock, dodging beetles
and trying to climb rocks, was way too difficult.  Maybe watching baby
simba fall off a ledge and die, or step on a beatle one too many times
and die, or (if you're lucky) just get mauled to death by the hyena at
the very end of the level has left be desensitized.

But nonetheless, I'm along for the ride tonight.  I'm less upset about
this specific remake as I am about all of them in general.  Think
about it.  It seems like Disney is really on track to literally re
release a CGI version of every movie they have ever made.  Sure,
they're starting with the easy ones first.  The Lion King.  Aladdin.
The little mermaid.  Those tales are chock full of empowering
messages.  But I'm waiting for them to finally get around to vamping
something like /Sleeping Beauty/.  How do you get young girls excited
about a beautiful young princess that sleeps in a tube and waits for a
magic kiss from a prince?  How about when she gets conned into washing
dishes for all those dwarfs in the woods?  And then I think there's a
poisonous fruit in the mix somewhere?

I think I was trying to build up to something, but I might just be
demonstrating how little I know about these Disney movies.  I don't
think there are any dwarfs in sleeping beauty, are there?  Man, if
that's the case, then what else happens in sleeping beauty?

If disney movies are your thing, then I hope for your sake that the
Lion King remake is everything you hoped it would be.  And if it's
not, then I hope you let 'em have it.

I was talking to a friend who had a very interesting interpretation of
this whole Disney movie remake stasis we're trapped in.  "Millenials
are the /me/ generation, so they're only showing their kids things
that THEY were into as kids."  That's a very poignant observation,
isn't it?  I had just assumed producers were lazy, or they didn't
want to pass up on an established franchise only to stick their neck
out for one that nobody's ever heard of.  But maybe we're the problem.

What's your favorite movie?  How would you feel about a remake?  Are
some things better left in the past?  Good questions to chew on this
rainy Friday morning.  Have a wonderful day, everyone.  Watch out for
beetles, hyenas, and falling rocks.

*** 2019-07-20 Saturday nazi zombies, lion king, and paposa

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday!  Yesterday, Marissa, Rodney, and I saw the new Lion
King movie, and I'm pleased to report it was pretty good.  As I've
covered before, I'm not especially invested in Disney movies, so the
real test is what Marissa and Rodney thought of it - and they loved
it.  I don't know - I guess I was expecting them to mess with the
movie a bit more.  They threw in a few new jokes (the Beauty and the
Beast reference was hilarious and totally unexpected), but it was
clear that Disney knew how important this movie was to people and
didn't take any risks with it.

When we got home, Rodney immediately fell asleep as the popcorn coma
was starting to set in, and we had a pretty low key evening.  Marissa
painted, I caught up on chores, then we reconvened at 11 to play Nazi
Zombies.  For the uninitiated, /Nazi Zombies/ is a mini game in the
/Call of Duty/ where you and a buddy cooperatively fight off hoards of
Nazi Zombies.  There's a bit of strategy involved in defending the
windows of the house and gaining points to spend on a random weapon
dispenser.  But the game has become a real staple in our married home
life.  We talk about the day, plan things, and reflect on life - all
over the dulcet sounds of gunfire and gnashing zombie teeth.

This morning, we just got done eating breakfast.  We had some
scrambled eggs on toast.  Later this morning after I shower, I'm going
to take Rodney to the market and pick up stuff to make /paposa/.  It's
essentially chuck roast rubbed in garlic and pepper corns and braised
in red wine all day.  Really, it takes all day to make, so if I get it
on the stove around 12:30, that's actually cutting it pretty close.
The upside is your house smells like - well - chuck roast braised in
red wine all day.

Hope you all have a wonderful weekend.  Relax, unwind, and cook
something that you would only have time for on a hot, lazy Saturday
like today.

*** 2019-07-21 Sunday explosion, cleaning, and church

Dear Journal,

Yesterday, I happily wrote about The Lion King, braised chuck roast,
and nazi zombies, but I totally forgot to mention something
significant that happened.  Not that I have an actual responsibility
to cover all current events, but it made for a pretty odd day.  Friday
morning, I jumped on the bust pretty much like any other day, but I
started to notice that traffic was really bad.  We usually reach the
square around 8:25 AM, but it was 8:30AM and still crawling along.  I
also noticed that my phone didn't have any service, which annoyed me
at first because I had no way to pass the time.

I saw several firetrucks and police cars whiz by, so I gathered some
kind of accident had happened.  We made it as far as Ingersoll Rd
before the driver pulled over and told us that East Wash was
completely blocked off and that something pretty big had happened.

A stept off the bus and continued walking to the square on foot.  I
got a few more blocks before I noticed big billowing black smoke
ahead.  I walked closer and noticed a small gathering of people,
firetrucks, cops, and high two cranes spraying water down on the MG&E
plant.  I got as close as I was allowed and snapped some pictures on
my phone.  I saw bright orange flames leap up through the smoke.

Finally, a slack message came through.  I checked my phone and read
that our office had been evacuated because of a power outage.  I
talked to a teammate later that day, and he said he heard the
explosion and that it sounded like somebody had dropped a bowling ball
on the floor.

A cop directing traffic said that a substation at MG&E had exploded.
Nobody was hurt, but it caused a pretty bad power outage, as MG&E is
Madison's main gas & electric company.

I walked home, since traffic was pretty much at a stand-still and the
bus lines were in total disarray.  My family was pretty surprised to
see me in the kitchen making french toast.  It was a hot morning and I
had just walked a mile and a half - we all deal with traumatic
experiences differently, don't we?

So that's what happened Friday.  I'm no Anderson Cooper, but it would
be weird if I didn't mention it right? I haven't read up on the
details, I think they're still figuring things out.  I recently found
out that there was a second explosion, and they're not sure if it was
related or not.  I'll keep an eye on the news and let you all know if
new developments come out.

Let's switch gears a bit.  Happy Sunday!  In a few moments, I'll wake
up Rodney and Marissa to begin the timeless morning scramble to early
church.  Normally we're 11AM people, but in the summer they
consolidate the 9AM and 11AM services to a single 10AM.  So things get
a little hectic on Sunday morning.  After church, I might try to
organize something.  Marissa got some momentum on the basement
yesterday, and it's starting to rub off.  I don't want to miss out on
all the cleaning fun.  Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday
yourselves.  Clean something, then take a nap to reward your efforts.

*** 2019-07-22 Monday bugs, phones, and weather

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Monday!  I just stepped outside to let the
dogs out and was struck by how wonderful the weather is.  It appears
we're finally getting a break from the bleak, muggy, locker room
weather we've been having.  I just glanced at the forecast and it's
not even supposed to get into the 80s today.  So there you go, even
Madison gets a little slice of Southern California once in a while.

You would think that living on the lake would kind of mellow out the
weather, but I don't think it's a large enough body of water to make
an impact.  Sometimes when we go to the biergarten and sit right next
to the shore, we can feel the wind cooled by the water, but for the
most part you wouldn't even know it's there.  Except for the bugs.
Hoards of mosquitos.  Big juicy dragon flies.  Strange looking
beetles.  And plenty of other evil-looking, stinging, bitey,
camouflaged bugs that thrive in the lakeside ecosystem.

Every summer here, a different kind of bug seems to make a comeback.
My first year in Madison was the year of the tick.  Before moving to
Wisconsin, I had seen two ticks in my life.  But we'd regularly have
to shake them off of ourselves after going for walks on the nature
path behind Healthgrades.  I found one crawling around on my desk
once.

This year is probably the year of the ant.  And ants aren't so bad,
are they?  Our house isn't infested or anything.  I just a few hear
and there scouting out our counters for crumbs.  And you can squash
them and scoop them up in one swift motion of our index finger, like
picking up a loose poppy seed.  That must be a terrible way to die,
but hey - you shouldn't have been poking around my kitchen.

The other night, Marissa and I were sitting in the backyard and we saw
this bright orange beetle dive bombing into our porch light.  It was
even bigger than a junebug - at first glance I honestly thought it was
a bird.

Enough talk of bugs - we have a Monday to get psyched for.  As of 8AM
today, my on-call shift is over.  Usually I like celebrate by going
for a long walk around the square with my phone silenced, just to
relish in the delight of not needing to be available for a page.
Pages are rare, but there's still a fair bit of anxiety associated
with staying within cell signal and always having your phone and
laptop at the ready.  And even though I'm a techie, I'm not one of
these people that always have their phone on them.  Did you know I
like to leave it behind sometimes?  On Saturdays I like to just leave
it in my closet while I go about the day.  It's easier to get work
done without the interruptions, and makes for better napping too.
Plus, I've noticed that half the time my phone wants something, it's
not a person.  It's usually my bank emailing me something I already
know, or an app whining about how I don't use it enough.  Or a damn
dirty telemarketer.  How bizarre that we get so much communication
from sources that aren't even real people!

Today is sprint planning for the interns.  We're beginning week #2,
and it's going to be a doozy.  So all hands on deck for this one.  But
we got this - it's a beautiful day outside, and when I get home, I can
shut my stupid phone off, crack open a cold beer, and sit outside to
enjoy a few special hours of summer air that doesn't feel like a gym
locker room.

Have a happy Monday everyone.  Today, leave your phone somewhere and
go for a walk without it.

*** 2019-07-23 Tuesday palm pilots and free software

Dear Journal,

In seventh grade I saved up my money and bought a Palm Zire.  I was
really excited about this upgrade, because it would be the first Palm
Pilot I had with a color screen and support for viewing pictures.  You
could load your personal files on an SD card and insert the card into
the device, and the coolest part about this was that you could even
use your own picture as a custom background image.  The Palm Zire was
everything I hoped it would be - the battery lasted long, writing with
the stylus was snappy and responsive, and the enormous 12 square
inches of screen seemed like almost too much rel estate.

A few of my other friends at school also had Palm Pilots, and before
school we would pass around each other's SD cards and trade games and
apps.  I always felt a little guilty about it, because I had assumed
it was technically stealing, and that even though copying the app to a
friends device happened to work, if you wanted an authentic copy you
had to buy a CD-ROM, install it on your desktop at home, then sync it
over to your palm pilot while it was docked (that was a very
gratifying ritual as well - you would press a big glowing green button
and the "HotSync" process would cause your device and computer to
display a loading par simultaneously).

My friend gave me an application called "Yesterday".  It's icon had a
little apple and steno pad.  It was a to-do list program made
specifically with students.  Not only could you quickly add tasks to a
queue, but you could group them by class and even create a list of
books you would need to bring home that night.  The benefits of this
app were self evident after only a few days of use.  It actually made
me excited about getting work done.  It was gratifying tap the
completed items with the stylus and watch a thin back line run through
the middle of the text, and when you were all finished with your work,
it would display a icon of a beach, implying that it was really time
to relax now that your work is completed.

But the more I used this app, the guiltier I felt.  For how much
mileage I was getting out of this nifty little application, I felt a
little bad that I wasn't running an authentic copy.  One day, I got
curious and started poking around the menus, and I found the README.
"YESTERDAY is shareware", it said.  That was the first time I had ever
seen that term.  "You may buy a copy, but please share this program
with as many friends as possible."  My guilt immediately vanished.
Was it really that simple?  I didn't realize that someone could
intentionally give their program away like that.

That was the first time it really clicked for me.  I had always
admired people that can tastefully automate something, and I was
really inspired by the generosity of forgoing clunky activation tokens
and tacky "trial expired" error pop-ups for the sake of just helping
as many people as possible.  To write a program that helps people,
then to just give it away for free - what a wonderful thing to do for
the people around you.

I think there's a trick in software, and it's counter intuitive.  You
would think that the more expensive something is, the better it is,
right?  Well in software, it's usually the opposite.  You want to use
as many free programs as possible, because free programs are written
by people that were just trying to solve a problem, then had the
meekness and generosity to just give it away.  Perhaps free software
is better because the author is more focused on the problem than
making a quick buck.  The Yesterday program felt like it was written
by a real student who was fed up trying to find the right program that
fit a student's work load.  Maybe it's better because people that are
thrifty with their wallet are more resourceful with what computer
resources their program uses.  You know what I really think it is?  At
the end of the day, I think generous people just have good taste.

What's your favorite computer program?  Did you pay for it, or was it
free?

*** 2019-07-24 Wednesday beer, toothpaste, and labels

Dear Journal,

It's a beautiful day today!  Lately, Wednesdays are my very busy days,
but the nice weather and the smell of good coffee is talking me into
it.  Today I'm drinking this new blend of coffee I grabbed from the
Jenny Street market called "smart ass".  The label had a little
picture of a donkey wearing thick glasses, and that was the only sales
pitch I needed.  And it's delicious!  So really not a bad choice in
the end.  You'd be surprised at how many of my buying choices are
totally based on something silly, like whether or not the label makes
me laugh.  And you'd be even more surprised at how often that strategy
works out.  Like when it comes to craft beer, you gotta go with a
label & name that's confident, but not pretentious.

I'm being kind of facetious, but there's probably some truth to that.
How things are labeled and named are a reflection of a creator's
personality, aren't they?  If you pick out a beer with a muted, thin
cursive letters, bearing an aloof name like /Wensleton Pale Ale/
(that's not a real beer, I just made it up), chances are the brewers
think very highly of themselves and the beer is not as good as they
think it is.

3 Floyd's beer makes me think of rock and roll.  The brews have quasi
violent names, and the bottles are decked out with intense death metal
imagery, and the regalia is fitting.  In the past few years, they've
kind of become true brewing rock stars of the Midwest.  There's a lot
of beer competition in Wisconsin, let alone Madison, and very few out
of state beers seem to make it into my liquor store.  The fact that 3
Floyd's has two shelves all on their own in a Madison liquor store
speaks for itself.

Me and Marissa's daily driver is Fantasy Factory, which is known for
its utterly ridiculous label.  It's a cat, holding a golden pistol
wearing some ninja garb riding on a unicorn.  And truth be told, I
never studied the picture in detail, but I think there's a light saber
and some ninja stars represented as well.  But the label is as
ridiculous as it is magnificent.  I think the ridiculous
ninja-cat-on-a-unicorn strikes a chord with people who would rather
live without shame.  The brewery that makes Fantasy Factory can be a
little over the top at times, but they can afford to experiment and be
a little outlandish because their hometown loves them so much and
they're not going anywhere.

Sometimes labels can be misleading.  I keep buying the wrong
toothpaste at Hy-Vee.  Toothpaste brands look way too similar, so I
end up just grabbing the first blue box that makes me think "yeah, I
think I've seen you hanging around in our bathroom cabinet before".
And the imagery of wintergreen rapids and frosty winds lull you into
an assurance that even if you didn't pick the brand you normally get,
your mouth is still going to feel clean and refreshed.  But you made a
mistake, and the toothpaste that's supposed to be blue comes out white
with a gross little red stripe and the taste vaguely resembles
playdough sweetened with splenda, and now you have a whole month to
look forward to of putting up with this utter stranger in your morning
routine.

Sometimes I wish certain things didn't have labels.  Have you ever
peeled the label off of the containers in your fridge?  Sometimes I
transfer things like cheese, lemon juice, or salsa to clear bags or
Tupperware.  I like being able to glance at something and quickly see
how much is left.  I like reaching for a bottle that's bright green,
and undeniably filled with lime juice because what else would be in
it?  I don't need a weird picture of a farmer's head or solemn organic
lime farming regalia to show me where the lime juice is.

Labels get a little noisy sometimes.  It feels like you can flip over
every bag or bottle and read things like "YOU CHOSE NEWMAN'S RANCH -
do you know what that says about you?" or "You're cool, calm and
collected, aren't you?  We can tell, because you chose to enjoy
David's Sunflower Seeds".  Label your product.  Put some humor and
pride in it.  But don't try to reach into my private life and project
your weird corporate delusions onto me.  I'm just a guy, I'm not a
/Newman's ranch dressing/ guy.

Well, time to start the day.  We /Newman's ranch dressing guys/ are
relentlessly punctual.  Go rip the label off of something.

*** 2019-07-25 Thursday yaks, margaritas, and chores

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty action-packed day.  I had my usual set of
meetings in the morning, but in the afternoon we discovered that the
thing the interns were building needed access an LDAP server.  We were
already at a threshold of maximum rules defined around the LDAP
server, so I spend most of the day tracking down rules that could be
removed to free up space.  It was a classic /yak-shaving/ day.

If you're not familiar with the term /yak-shaving/, it's worth
knowing.  The back story is a little embellished, depending on the
version you hear, but in summary, a guy asks his neighbor for a cup of
sugar, and the neighbor asks him to first retrieve something of his
from the other neighbor, who in turn asks him to first retrieve
something os his from a different neighbor, and on it goes until, the
guy finds himself doing various chores - including shaving somebody's
yaks - all because he just wanted a cup of sugar.  Do you have days
where you set out to do something simple and plausible, but ended up
fixing a whole chain of things to get there?

Once all the yak-shaving was done, I met Marissa and Rodney at a taco
place to grab dinner before the concert on the square.  Tacos were a
good choice - did you know yesterday was national tequila day?  The
restaurant was celebrating with lots of free Margarita samples, and
Rodney even got a free luchador mask.  What would a toddler need with
a luchador mask?  Who knows, but he was quite smitten with it and I'm
sure it will be making unexpected appearances all weekend.

After dinner, we mozied over to our spot on the capital lawn and
listened to the concert.  Last night's theme was /The Beatles/, and
our friends had a lot of fun teasing us for how few Beatles songs we
recognized.  I remember things about the Beatles the same way I might
remember things about US presidents or street names in a new town.
The vague familiarity is there, but hearing /Hey Jude/ isn't going to
send me back in time on a wave of nostalgia.  There are a few DC talk
songs that could do that to me, but nothing by the Beatles
unfortunately.

We got home from the concert on the square pretty late, some time
around 9:30, then I got started on chores.  Wednesdays are a pretty
chore heavy day for me, and that's by design.  I like being a little
busy on Wednesday night and using the momentum to get over the week's
hump.  I had to catch up on dishes, then I cleaned and wiped down the
microwave & stove, and finally cleaned out the fridge.  Sometimes I
like to snack on food that's nearing the expiration date in an effort
to free up more space, but the chimichanga and free Margaritas kicking
around in my stomach weren't in the mood for company.

I wrapped up chores around 11:30 - just in time to watch an episode of
/New Girl/.  Marissa and I started over from season 1, and it's a
great way to end the day.  I also sipped on a half shot of tequila - I
had 30 minutes remaining in National Tequila day, and it only comes
once a year, right?

Today should be another ringer of a day.  I'm working from home in the
morning, then I'm taking Rodney into the office for Bring Your Kid to
Work Day.  We're taking the bus in, then we're going to play it by
ear.  My work has a lot of planned activities for the kids, but we
might also just hang out in a conference room and color while I get
some work done.

So another action packed day ahead.  But it's Thursday, and before you
know it, it'll be Friday and we'll have a relaxing weekend ahead of
us.  We might just have to shave a few yaks to get there.  

Let's have a Thursday!

*** 2019-07-26 Friday bring your kid to work day

Dear Journal,

"Bring Your Kid to Work Day" was a success!  We had a pretty slow
morning.  I let Rodney sleep in until about 9:30.  I made french toast
from a stale sourdough baguette.  After breakfast, we packed his
backpack with a few toys - we went with a lego skid steer and a few
airplanes and other trucks.  We snapped a few pictures on the porch,
then walked over to the bus stop.  We left a little early, so we spend
about fifteen minutes just hanging out at the bus stop.  Rodney met a
dog (he politely asked if he could pet it), and he also picked up a
cigarette butt off the ground and tried to give it to me.

Rodney was fascinated with the bus.  He exuberantly greeted the bus
driver and told him to have a good day, then we made our way to the
back.  Rodney quietly studied each person sitting on the bus, and even
chatted a few people up.  He had such a good time, I'm sure if we just
rode the bus to the square and back, then walked home, he would have
still had an amazing day.  But as all morning commuters now, the
magical morning bus ride is only the beginning, and soon we were
walking up King street to get to my office.  Rodney quickly got tired
of walking in the hot sun.  We very slowly and pensively made our way
around the square, into my building, and took the elevator up to my
floor.

The eighth floor was pretty quiet.  All the kids were down on the
seventh floor doing various activities.  Rodney was a little tired
from the walk, so I decided to reserve a conference room for an hour.
I short the door, and Rodney emptied his back pack onto the table and
quietly played in his chair.  I totally understand, sometimes when I
first get to work in the morning, I can't actually focus until I too
spend an hour playing with trucks and legos at my desk - it's nothing
to be ashamed of.  I connected my laptop to the monitor and played
some good ol' Blippi, in the interest of background noise.

While we quietly worked in the conference room, a few of my coworkers
peeked there head in to say hello.  Rodney seemed to enjoy the
camaraderie and acted he was life long friends with Gavin and Nate,
even though he may have only met them once.

I caught up on messages, and even fixed a bug in something I was
working on, but before I knew it, it was noon.  Our time slot on the
conference room was nearing an end, but we felt like walking around
anyway.  We dropped of our things at my desk, then finally went
downstairs to check out what they had for the kids.  They were set up
in the town hall room, and they had a big crayon wall, tee-pees,
tunnels, and some people wearing safari outfits walking around with
animals.  Rodney got to pet a bunny, but he had serious reservations
about it, so I didn't even bother trying to get him to pet the
hedgehog or the tarantula.

We grabbed some lunch, then headed upstairs to change his diaper.
Rodney was really talkative in the bathroom, and even though he was
lying on his back with his naked legs up in the air, he still greeted
every person that walked into the bathroom behind us, saying "HOW ARE
YOU?" and "Excuse me!  <gibberish...> DIAPER CHANGE."  We walked
around the kids area a bit longer, and before we knew it, it was 1pm
and mom was on her way to pick him up from his first day of work.  We
said goodbyes, then very slowly made our way around the square.  Mom
wanted us to pick her up some lunch, so we waited outside of a Food
cart.  On the way to the car, we saw "uncle bobbert".  Rodney gave him
a high five, and was spell bound by Rob's story about his cool new
blue truck.  Marissa picked Rodney up around 1:15.  He talked about
his busy work day all the way home.

There were a lot of kids there yesterday.  One thing I really enjoyed
seeing was kids actually hanging out with the parents while they
worked.  Planned events for the kids are cool, but I think some of
"bring your kid to work day" should be spent watching your parents
work to get the real essence of the holiday.  Chatting around the
water cooler, small talk before meetings, snacks in the break room -
it's fun sharing that with your kids, and I think kids enjoy the
glimpse into daily office life.

*** 2019-07-27 Saturday hayward

Dear Journal,

I'm coming to you this morning from an RV in beautiful Hayward
Wisconsin.  I took a half day off yesterday to get a jump on the
drive.  Our car is /sans/ AC at the moment, so the windows were down
for the entirety of the five hour journey into northern Wisconsin -
which wasn't so bad actually.  When you're barreling down the country
highway with all the windows open, you can't really listen to music or
chit chat - but the wind whipping through your hair really helps pass
the time.

We got in just after five.  After we unloaded all of our stuff, we
went down to the lodge with Tom and Renee to have some fish fry.  It
was Friday after all, and the traditions run deep, especially this
deep into the Wisconsin wilderness.  On Friday, we eat fried fish.

After dinner, we let Rodney get some wiggles out on a little
playground by the lake.  It was starting to get dark out, so we made
our way back to sit around the fire.  I broke out the guitar for some
classic fireside noodling.  It was nice to catch up with the in-laws.
I love the way a campfire draws out the conversation between people.

Renee and Tom turned in for the night, and Marissa and I made our way
to the lodge for a few more drinks.  There was a cover band playing
80s rock hits, and by the looks of it everyone in the crowd was too
drunk to care that Marissa and I didn't know any of the songs.  We
just grabbed a beer and jostled around with the rest of the hooligans.
We found Auntie Sarah in the fray, and she treated me to a shot of
tequila.

After a few more drinks, Marissa and I stepped outside to get some
fresh air.  We had originally wanted to walk out on the dock, but
after a few more shots of tequila, I wasn't feel very agile and I knew
in my heart of hearts that I'd roll right into the knee deep lake
water if I tried to walk out there - which would really sour the
moment, don't you think?  We stumbled back to the camper sometime
around 12:30pm, 80s rock still blaring in the distance behind our
backs.  I wonder how long the party went on?

I arose a little earlier this morning, so I decided to walk to a
grocery store to pick up some coffee.  Well, it was technically a
"country" store.  I'm not familiar with the term, but it was basically
a combination grocery store & casino.  When I returned from my
wholesome morning walk, Marissa teased me as if I had decided to stay
a little longer to play some slots.  I assure you, I passed on it.
There was plenty of stale cigarette smoke to go around, and I got my
fair share just grabbing a few packs of K-cups.

This morning, we're pushing fluids, nibbling on breakfast, and laying
low while Rodney watches some Saturday morning cartoons.  Later today,
we're going to take the boat out.  Renee and Tom bought a new tubing
raft, and Rodney and I graciously agreed to help test it.

Let's have a Saturday!  Go tubing.  Look at the stars.  Take a shot of
tequila and dance to a song you've never heard before.  Nobody cares
that you don't know any of the words.

*** 2019-07-28 Sunday hayward 2

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  We took our time drinking coffee and
nibbling on breakfast before we head out on the boat around lunch
time.  Once we got out onto the lake, we realized the tube wasn't
inflated correctly and we had to double back - but we all didn't mind
the boat ride and the warm sun.  After we docked, Marissa and her mom
headed up to the camper to restock the cooler, and Tom took the tube
pump to a nearby outlet, leaving me and Rodney in the boat.  It was
fun to watch Rodney putz around the boat.  He spent some time sitting
in the passenger seat, he leaned over the edge looking for /baby
sharks/ (I may have told him that was a possibility).

When everyone returned, we once again headed out on the lake and got
some tubing time in.  Rodney, Renee, and Marissa were the first to go.
Rodney was unsure about the whole thing, but he was a good sport.
Marissa and I went for a while.  It's funny how soar you can get just
laying on a tube getting pulled behind a boat.  How is that even a
workout?  Why do my joints hurt so bad right now?

We anchored the boat by some shallow water.  Marissa agreed to watch
Rodney while I closed my eyes at the front of the boat under a beach
towel.  Falling asleep on a boat gently tossing in the water might be
one of the greatest kinds of naps on earth.  While I slept, I thought
about the story where Jesus slept on a boat during a thunderstorm
while the apostles thought they were going to die.  I woke up feeling
refreshed, and to my surprise Rodney was sleeping too.  He takes a nap
every day in the afternoon, and old habits die hard - even on a boat.

We went out to dinner at a pizza place from Marissa's childhood.  I
got a free beer that they poured by mistake.  After dinner, Marissa
and I went for a quick walk around the campsite before deciding to
turn in for the night.

Today, we're going to play a few rounds of bingo before making the
drive home.  I'll spend the whole drive thinking about what to make
for dinner when we get home.

Let's have a Sunday!  Take a nap on a boat if you can, I really
recommend it.

*** 2019-07-29 Monday driving, rest, and email

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a day of driving.  Sometime around the third or fourth
hour, all of us started showing cracks in our composure.  Our icecream
had run out.  We hit weekend Dells traffic.  The car started to feel
stuffy and sticky, and none of us felt like talking.  But we made it
home, and it felt so good to come into the house, close the door, and
take a hot shower.  Marissa climbed back into the car to go pick up
the dogs, while Rodney and I stayed behind and tried to fit an entire
weekend of R&R into just a few hours, and it felt like we got pretty
close.

We got home a little later than we thought we would, and even though
the plan was to talk to the market to pick up some food, it felt cruel
to take Rodney on a long walk outside.  He was settled in on the couch
watching spider-man.  So instead of running errands, we just ordered a
pizza.  I joined him on the couch and flipped through some comic books
I loaned him from my shelf.  He's way off from being able to
understand them, but he likes looking at the pictures and trying to
find cool Spider-Man poses.

Marissa got home with the dogs around 8:45.  "The drive was fine -
there was traffic, but I only screamed twice and cried once," she
laughed.  After letting Rodney play with the dogs for a few minutes, I
put him to bed.  Marissa and I ate some sliced up gouda on the couch
and caught up on YouTube videos.

Aside from a stiff neck from tubing and a touch of sunburn on my legs,
I'm feeling pretty good this morning.  I'm ready to attack a new week.
And this week is going to be a doozy.  We're pressing on with our
intern project at work, and this week will likely be fraught with
blockers and last minute fixes.  I'm also hoping to get started on my
next computer build.  I'm going to take apart the downstairs computer
and mount the parts to Plexiglas in my room, so this week I hope to at
least open it up to see what we're dealing with.  I've also been
chipping away at a side project that's still in pretty good shape.
I'm glad I had the foresight to catch up on emails last Thursday
before we left for Hayward.

Speaking of which, did you know that I still get emails?  That might
be the best part of this blog.  I used to provide a section under each
article for comments, but I've accidentally found that when you omit
the comments, people reach out to you in other ways, and it's a lot
more personal and substantive.  Some weeks, I'll have a real, personal
email thread ongoing between four or five people.  It gives me a lot
of joy.  And if you're out there and you've been reading these
updates, drop me a line and say hello!  I'm still at
[[mailto:alex@reckerfamily.com][alex@reckerfamily.com]].

Time to get going.  I really need to shave - at some point over the
weekend my rugged beard became a negligent beard.  Let's have a
Monday.  And just in case you're not all the way rested up from this
weekend, take an hour today to just sit and eat some gouda.

*** 2019-07-30 Tuesday chores, chicken, and routine

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a productive day.  The morning was filled with planning
meetings, and in the afternoon the interns and I finally fixed access
in their project.  It felt good to delete all the half measures and
work around we were relying on, and it really cleaned things up.
After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee.  Marissa warned me that he was still
a little grumpy from driving so much the day before.  We decided to
give him some slack today.  We had a mini tantrum in the bakery
section when I said he couldn't eat a bread butt.  He was already
eating a banana, and I think he forgot that I make him pick between
the two.

When we got home, Rodney joined Marissa outside to work on pouring
planter rocks, and I got to work on dinner.  I made chicken
/saltimbocca/, which I miraculously finished on time.  At some point,
while you're pounding the chicken breasts flat, seasoning each side,
and gently tamping down a layer prosciutto through cling wrap, you
start to wonder if you're even going to have food on the table before
10pm.  But it's one of those meals that you just have to stick with,
and while it takes a while to assemble, the thin chicken cuts only
take about five minutes to cook through.  All the food was on the
table by 7:05, which is only 5 minutes late by my standards.

It was nice to sit down as a family at our own dinner table.  We
chatted about home projects, work, and what Spider-Man episodes Rod is
currently really into.  After dinner, we put Rod to bed.  We read /Are
You My Mother?/, which is a nice, mellow weeknight favorite.

For the rest of the night, Marissa hung out in the kitchen to work on
some wedding shower stuff, and I caught up on chores around the house.
Tuesday is garbage day, so I try to empty out all the garbages in the
house.  If you do the same thing, don't forget about the little
garbages - like in the bathroom, the car, or the bedroom.  Those
little garbages can add up.

As a study snack, I cut up some french bread I bought from the grocery
store today.  I wiped a little pad of butter on each slice and heated
up the plate in the microwave.  That's how my mom used to serve it up,
and I think it's the best.

I finished the night with some computer time.  I worked on a time
lapse for Marissa, and in between all the exporting and uploading, I
worked on some code.  I'm really starting to surprise myself with how
long I'm sticking to this side project.  I've even started using the
tool on my own computer to manage some configs.

I never got around to opening up the basement computer.  There wasn't
a lot of kitchen table space available, so I decided to just put it
off a night.

We wrapped up work around midnight.  We thought about squeezing in an
episode of /New Girl/, but we did the more prudent thing and just went
to bed.  We have a long week ahead of us, and it's best to rest up
while you can, you know?

Today will probably feel a lot like yesterday - work, lunch, work,
groceries, dinner, chores, rest.  I'm also hoping to finally open up
the computer and start making a list of the parts I need to rebuild it
on the wall.  At some point today, I also need to pick a recipe to
make for concert on the square, although I may have already settled on
[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJUiWdM__Qw][pasta aglio]].

Let's have a Tuesday!  We have a long week ahead of us, but just focus
on what you want to do today.  And go easy on yourself, it's only
Tuesday.  If you're tempted to stay up a little later to cross
something off the to-do list, just save it for tomorrow.  Sleep is
more important.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-07-31 Wednesday chance

Dear Journal,

So Chance the Rapper released a new album last Friday.  While we were
packing from Hayward, I was refreshing my phone in hopes I'd have
enough time to download it for the car.  I saw the new twitter post
minutes before we started up the car.  We tried listening to it on
Spotify and got a few tracks in, but the free tier only lets you
shuffle albums.  We managed to listen to the first track on YouTube.
I get psyched hearing /and we back/ at the beginning of each of his
albums, but the rest of it just sounded like a terrible [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mpkf_p71rKY][Bill Wurtz]]
song.

I didn't have time to listen to more of the album over the weekend
until Sunday.  Rodney was eating breakfast, and Renee and Tom were
driving to town to pick up some stuff for the boat.  I clicked through
several more songs.  There were some pretty moments sprinkled
throughout, but I started to wonder if it was a bad album.

After we got home, catching up on chores gave me an opportunity to
finally dig in. I was eager to find at least one track to put on my
end of the year hip-hop mix tape, but I honestly couldn't find any.
My excitement for a new Chance album turned into morbid curiosity as
to how this mess of a project would be received.  The reddit comments
and tweets were split - some insisting the album was really bad, and
other insisting that /Coloring Book/ got the same flack when it first
came out.  Some reviews trickled in over the weekend, but last night
my favorite music critic Anthony Fantano finally [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RjriHA-MLPg][released his review.]]
In short, he didn't like it either.  He /really/ didn't like it.

That got me thinking about how I found Chance.  I was late in the
game - the first single I heard that really stuck with me was [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eedeXTWZUn8][Angels.]]
I loved how bright and cocky the rapping was, and his whole sound just
oozed with this attractive Chicago pride.  I've only been living in
Madison for about four years, and I still feel a bit like an outsider.
It felt good to connect with my home city (and don't even start with
that whole /the suburbs don't count/ spiel, the way I see it if you
can ride the train into the city, you live in the city).

I worked backwards into Chance's discography from there.  The track
/angels/ was a single that would likely be on his next album, but I
still had plenty to explore.  /Acid Rap/ became my new regular listen
on the hour long bus ride from Middleton to the east side.  I had
barely gotten time to listen to his first album /10 Day/ before
/Coloring Book/ was released.  It was very different from his last
projects.  He had just had a kid, and some real sentimentality started
to permeate.  I think that may have been the first time I heard the
term /dad rap/, and perfect timing because I had just become a Dad a
few weeks earlier.  Actually, I played the song [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yZnkwzeFfE][Grown Ass Kids]] in the
delivery room just moments after Rodney was born, which was a leaked
track that never made it onto coloring book because of licensing
issues.  Marissa and I really liked the song, because we felt wildly
unprepared to have a kid.  We were still figuring out how to pay bills
and keep our house from falling apart, and we still just felt like
kids.

My time's almost up this morning, but in short, I loved coloring
book.  Which is why /The Big Day/ was such a shock.  It was such a
change in velocity for Chance.  It's been three years since his last
project (Rodney's age is a good way to measure when Coloring Book came
out, isn't it), and this direction is absolutely baffling.

I think I have more to say about Chance, but we'll have to save it for
another day.  If you haven't had a chance to listen to it, check it
out and join the conversation.  Hope you all have a wonderful
Wednesday.

** 2019-08 August

*** 2019-08-01 Thursday interviews and smalltalk

Dear Journal,

I had a pretty tough time rolling out of bed this morning.  I think
I'm still a little exhausted from yesterday.  I had back to back
meetings most of the day, including a two hour long interview
training.  That was the meeting I had been dreading most of the day,
but it actually turned out to be pretty interesting and helpful.  We
talked about the different types of biases that can creep into how
your perceive interview candidates, and how it's best to just avoid
small talk.

Which makes sense.  In an environment where you can be held legally
responsible for discriminating against someone's religion, gender,
age, or appearance, small talk is a a can of worms that's not worth
opening.  "What part of town are you from?"  "Do you prefer nerdy
video game A or B?"  "You must like to break the rules - I can tell
from that awesome tattoo on your face."

Not to say you can't be friendly and relatable with a candidate.  You
can still talk about what you're working on, and what you think about
the company, how the position has changed over the years, etc.

During the training, I was reflecting on some of the interviews I've
seen.  Occasionally, I conduct code screens for candidates, where I
have to give people problems to solve with code, or administer
technical quizzes.  One time I had a guy who was being secretly helped
by a friend.  While he was quietly working on the coding problem I
gave him, I could hear whispering and multiple keyboards typing and at
some point, they must have forgotten they were trying to keep it a
secret, because they just started discussing the problem aloud.  "Um,
how many people are there?" I asked.  "Just two, my friend is helping
me."  At that point, I think there was already a mutual understanding
that the interview was going nowhere, so after making it clear that
this was against the rules and you can't have help during the coding
challenge, I introduced myself and got to know his friend.

Doing remote interviews with college students is a lot of fun too.
Most of them take the calls right from their dorm, and there will be
silly posters on the wall, or a wet towel with mold on it hanging in
plain view of the camera.  Sometimes their roommate will barge in
unexpectedly and I get to witness some brief animosity.

Interviews are a fun glimpse into people's life.  Everyone prepares
and behaves differently.  I enjoy watching people adapt, stay
composed, and diffuse the tension in their own special way.

What adaptations do you make when you're nervous?  How do you keep
your composure, and what do you do to break the ice?

*** 2019-08-02 Friday seinfeld, pizza, and spiderman

Dear Journal,

We made it to Friday!  It's a beautiful morning, isn't it?  I kicked
off my morning routine with a slight variation today.  Usually I run a
load of dishes, then before I turn in for the night I make coffee for
the morning.  Last night, I had just finished making tonight's pizza
sauce, and the dishwasher was still running.  So this morning, instead
of letting the coffee machine kick in and lazily browsing reddit in
bed, I had to spring up and start the machine myself.  I watched an
episode of Seinfeld while I waited - the one where George gets a
massage from a man and feels uncomfortable about it.  George and Jerry
discuss how to truly test if you're a homosexual, and the rest of the
episode George gets hostile when people unwittingly remind him of his
new found insecurity - like when Jerry's dentist friend tries to get
George to join him in admiring an oiled, glistening Evander Holyfield
on his poster.  /He's a good fighter and a nice guy, but I don't LIKE
him./ The undeniable fact that this episode is still funny is a
testament to the mastery of Seinfeld.  The conversation around
sexuality has moved so far past the whole /hetero guy anxiously
wonders if he's gay/ trope, it would have to take a genius to land
that joke in 2019.  And there I was, laughing to it at 6:30 AM
in 2019.

Today, Marissa, Rodney, and the puppies are going to an agility trial.
It's Ziggy's first official trial in a while, and she's been
diligently practicing.  After work, I'll arrive at an empty house,
with nothing on my TODO list but making a pizza before everyone gets
home.  I finished the sauce last night, but I'll need to walk to the
grocery store and pick up some cheese.  Hy-Vee struck out again last
night, as they were out of pecorino cheese for the fourth week in a
row.  They just reorganized their cheese aisle, and I'm starting to
wonder if they just stopped carrying certain things all together.

This weekend, there's more agility, but Rodney and I will be staying
home.  He's started to form food preferences.  The other day, Marissa
tells me he asked to eat eggs for breakfast.  This weekend I'm on a
quest to find out what else he likes to eat, and all through out we'll
be watching spider-man cartoons.  We've depleted our meager stash of
2000's era /Spectacular Spider-Man/ episodes, so we're turning the
clock all the way back to 1994 and trying out the original 90's
version.  And don't you accuse me of letting my own nostalgia dictate
my son's preferences - I barely had to try, and the 90's Spider-Man is
nothing short of a masterpiece.  Except the theme song - the theme
song is absolutely garbage.  What do kids want to hear on Saturday
morning?  Unsingable monotone grunge rock, of course.

Have a happy Friday everyone.  Today, let's get our work done, then
reward our effort with some good TV time.  Watch something a little
older, maybe?

*** 2019-08-03 Saturday relaxation, cartoons, and dutch babies

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Saturday to everyone!  Last night was as
mellow as it could be, and exactly what I needed after a long work
week.  After making our usual Friday night pizza, I put Rodney to bed,
packed up some leftovers, then Marissa and I climbed under a blanket
and watched New Girl.  I entered a deep state of coziness, keeping my
neck and back perfectly straight and not moving any of my limbs.  I
felt like I was in a deep sleep, only with the added bonus of getting
to watch TV instead of dream, and occasionally laugh aloud.

We emerged from our TV watching cocoon sometime around 12:30PM and
immediately sauntered upstairs to bed.  This morning, feeling utterly
refreshed, I jumped out of bet a little earlier than usual so I could
clean up after dinner and make breakfast.  I attempted to make a Dutch
Baby, which wasn't nearly as perilous as I expected.  I clarified some
butter, whipped up a quick batter in a blender, then poured the batter
into the center of a hot cast-iron pan.  The batter and butter hissed
angrily, and it reminded me of the scene from the Wizard of Oz where
(spoiler alert) the witch melts.  A hot, evil, wet mess went into the
oven, but twenty minutes later it was a golden brown, doughy
breakfast-flavored cloud.  Completely on par with all of Chef John's
recipes, this [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kyxEFj7bgHI][Dutch Baby recipe]] was fool-proof, and an instant
favorite.

Rodney, Marissa, and I ate breakfast at the table, then made our way
to the couch to watch some cartoons.  After a quick journal entry, I'm
going to shower, then take Rodney out to grab some lunch and some
groceries.  Marissa was stuck with him all day yesterday at her
agility trial (which Ziggy absolutely nailed - two qualifying runs in
one day!), so we agreed to fit as much dad time in today as possible.

Let's have a Saturday.  Make a dutch baby, watch some cartoons, and go
for a walk.  We can clean up the kitchen later, there's no hurry.

*** 2019-08-04 Sunday wandering, groceries, and puff pastry

Dear Journal,

Good morning!  And happy Sunday to everyone.  As promised, yesterday
didn't have too much action.  After breakfast, Rodney and I went for a
long walk to the grocery store.  Ever since I noticed that my usual
path takes me in the opposite direction for a leg of the journey, I've
been interesting in finding a more direct way to get there.  Rodney
and I got a little lost, but we had fun wandering through some nearby
neighborhoods.

Rodney and I perused the grocery store.  For dinner, I decided to try
making /Saucijzenbroodjes/, or Dutch sausage rolls.  I've been wanting
to get more acquainted with puff pastry, and this seemed like a really
good introductory recipe.  I picked up ground chuck from the butcher
while Rodney chatted up the live lobsters in the tank, then we walked
home.  For lunch, we heated up some leftovers.  Marissa left with
Ziggy to the second day of her agility trial, and by then Rodney was
ready for a nap.

The /Saucijzenbroodjes/ turned out pretty good.  I definitely have
some learning to do when it comes to puff pastry.  To my surprise, the
squares were frozen solid, so I went the way of thawing them in the
microwave.  I thawed the first sheet too much and it just about
melted.  And to my greater surprise, the other sheets had just thawed
on their own on the warm counter while I was futzing around with the
first one.  I prepared a filling of ground beef, bread crumbs, and an
egg seasoned with salt, pepper, garlic, and a lot of nutmeg.  I packed
the ground beef into "sausages" and did my best to cinch them up in
the puff pastry, scoring the tops with a knife and brushing them with
egg wash.  I felt a little silly, because in preparation of working
with puff pastry I dusted the whole counter with flour, as if I were
making puff pastry from scratch or something.  In hindsight, none of
that was needed.  Puff pastry was easy to work with, as long as you
don't go off and do something stupid, like melting it in the
microwave.

I baked the sausage rolls for about twenty five minutes.  Two of them
popped open.  I think I had a bit too much water in the egg wash,
which dampened the tops.  Additionally, I probably should have rolled
them so that the seam wasn't on top, as the scoring kind of weakened
the seal.  There's always next time.  All in all, I enjoyed my first
experience working with puff pastry.

Today, Rodney and I are going to go play some baseball at a park we
discovered during our wanderings yesterday.  We have some leftovers in
the house, but I might take him out to lunch.

Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday.  Remember - puff pastry thaws on
its own, and you only discover new places when you wander off the path
you normally take.

*** 2019-08-05 Monday computers, cars, and leftovers

Dear Journal,

This week, I'm hoping to get started on building a new computer.
Well, I should say /rebuilding/.  The computer has been sitting in the
basement for a few years, but I'm going to relocate it to the upstairs
wall and mount the parts on plexiglas.  The downstairs computer has
served us well.  We bought it when Marissa was interested in doing
graphic design, since she would need a machine powerful enough to run
the adobe suit, but it quickly turned into just another computer for
video games.  We had both of our PCs set up in the upstairs bedroom on
a long table she made from wood reclaimed from a bowling alley.  It
looked cool, but it was impractically heavy, and truth be told every
time I sat at the table I feared that it would snap and crush my legs.

Like I said, it was supposed to be a workstation, but eventually we
just used it for video games.  Marissa and I used to sit at the table
and play Counter Strike.  We had headsets and everything, and we were
pretty good - we could usually hold our own in a match.

Eventually I got sick of owning a PC.  I was craving a little more
minimalism in my work station, and a giant glowing, flashing, whirring
box just wasn't cutting it.  My PC was a lot older - I bought it the
summer after graduating college entirely with graduation money.  I
really didn't know what I was doing, so I just went as high end as
possible.  After we got rid of my computer, there was little reason to
keep Marissa's in our bedroom, so we moved it downstairs.  There,
sitting on a concrete floor, it's been faithfully running a plex
server.  Occasionally I play video games on it, streaming from my
upstairs raspberry pi.

This week, I'm hoping to take it apart, measure everything, and start
planning a wall build.  I haven't looked inside Marissa's old PC in a
while, so there could be some surprises waiting.  Some parts look good
mounted on a wall no matter what - like a motherboard or an SSD, but
for all I know the power source could be a giant, hot gray box that
looks so awkward on plexiglass that I reconsider the whole thing.

All the computers in my room are a work in progress.  The PI
workstation and the wall mounted router were huge improvements, all to
the end of having a reliable home network that's easy to rewire and
access.

Ambitious home network plans aside, this week is pretty normal.  Back
in the office today after a relaxing weekend filled with cooking,
cartoons, and good beer.  This morning I'm dropping off our car so we
can finally get the AC fixed.  Rodney has been a good sport about it,
and he doesn't mind having all the windows open, but sitting at
stoplights or being stuck in traffic is pretty brutal.

After work, we're all going to Hy-Vee to stock up on some
miscellaneous things, then we're going home to heat up dinner.
Tonight's dinner is 100% locally sourced leftovers.  We've got
chicken, potatoes, saucijzenbroodjes, a few slices of pizza, and just
to round everything off I'm going to make a dutch baby for dessert.

Let's have a Monday!

*** 2019-08-06 Tuesday computers, naps, and work

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and hope you're doing well on this drizzly morning.  We
had some nice summer thunderstorms roll in last night.  Ziggy and I
took a spontaneous nap on the couch while listening to the thunder.
Sometimes in the evening, especially during weeks where I don't get as
much sleep as I'd like to, I'll take a quick power nap on the couch
with Ziggy.  Her nose gets cold, and she likes to tuck her head
between my head and the pillow, and a few minutes of listening to her
breath will effectively lull me to sleep.

After a quick power nap, I dragged up the downstairs computer and
opened it up.  My goal was to just have a quick look, maybe remove
some dust, then put it back, but the project kind of spun out of
control and before I knew it, I had all the parts completely removed
and set aside.  There's a lot more going on than I anticipated.  As I
had feared, the power supply is a giant, hideous gray box.  But it
just occurred to me that if I could boot it without the video card, I
might be able to get away with a smaller, more low profile power
supply - and that's better for our electric bill as well.

Before I knew it, it was 10:45, so I rushed to re assemble the
computer before evening TV time.  The computer booted, but there was
no video output - thanks to my brilliant strategy of not taking
pictures or notes and just winging it.  On the bright side, now that
the computer is only half assembled, it should be much easier to pick
up where I left off tonight.

I'm thinking about just selling off the parts individually and buying
a low powered Atom board.  I'm kind of over the whole "beefy computer"
thing.  This past year has been an unofficial experiment in cheap, low
powered machines, and for the most part they all have worked out
pretty well.  The only time I have trouble is running chrome on my
raspberry pi, but I try to do that sparingly.  I can still take notes,
make journal entries, and even write some code without having to open
up a browser.  I would also tout the electric savings, but I'm sure my
desktop and servers are a drop in the bucket compared to what it costs
to run our AC in the hot summer months.  We like to keep it cold - I
like when every room in the house feels like a chilly basement.

So what else is going on... the interns and I have started on the
second to last week of work, and it's a doozy.  Last week we rehearsed
the disaster recovery plan and designed some ambitious improvements,
and this is the week where we pretty much just attempt to build
everything.  As always, they're way further along than I anticipated,
but overall it should be the perfect amount of work for the last two
weeks we have together.

Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday.  When was the last time you
cleaned the dust out of your computer?  I bet it looks like coral reef
of dust bunnies in there.

*** 2019-08-07 Wednesday salad, reunions, and time

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a very productive day.  After a busy work day, I took
rod to the grocery store.  We picked up a few supplied, along with the
stuff to make saucijzenbroodjes and a salad on the side.  I don't have
a lot of experience making salads, so I went with some sliced cabbage
& bell peppers tossed in apple cider vinegar, lemon juice, olive oil,
some apple juice, and pepper.  I think it was a decent attempt, but
the dressing was way too acidic.  I have a lot to learn about salads.
If only it were as simple as just tossing random vegetables in some
kind of liquid.

After Rod went to bed, I finally caught up on emails.  I'm finally
starting to get the ball rolling with my high school reunion.  We
picked a day, reserved the school, and now we're starting to cobble
together some ideas for what we should eat and do to commemorate ten
years being out of high school.  It's funny - ten years is both a long
and short amount of time, and I've felt both sides of that.  Ten years
is an entire decade, but ten years ago was 2009, and that doesn't
sound like it happened that long ago, does it?  I've had ten years of
life experience since leaving high school.  Ten years ago I was only
19 years old.  For each way you can frame the time that's passed, I
feel a bit differently about it.

The other day, I started thinking about turning thirty - which is
right around the corner.  I'm not overcome with dread, or feeling
crushed by my own mortality or anything like that.  But I'm just a
little disappointed that my life is somewhere between half over and a
third over.  It's like when you're watching a movie and you get swept
up in all the action.  The good guys are getting ready to fight the
bad guys, and then just before the battle starts, you glance at the
clock and realize that you're heading into the final movement.  The
major characters have already been introduced, and the writing shifts
focus to carry the story forward.  What I'm trying to say is that if
my life were the Lord of the Rings, I feel like I'm starting to wind
down the Fellowship of the Ring.  If that's true, I still have two
whole movies to go, I suppose.

What things around you make you feel old?  What makes you feel young?
I hope you all have a wonderful Wednesday.

*** 2019-08-08 Thursday headaches, computers, and naps

Dear Journal,

I'm struggling this morning.  I woke up with a pretty nasty headache
right behind one of my eyes.  I just took some Tylenol, and now I'm
gulping down coffee in an attempt to get the blood flowing through my
head.  We'll see how I feel in a few minutes, I suppose.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  It was a really busy work day, so I
asked Marissa if she wanted to go out to dinner at glass nickel.  We
usually go there on Wednesdays and it had been a while, so she agreed.
I ordered the stromboli, and a few minutes after finishing my meal,
the red sauce and the beer really started to mess with my stomach.
After we got home, I tried to just work through it and focus on
cleaning the stove and the microwave, but the indigestion lingered.
This morning, it must have taken the form of a fun little headache.
But even while typing this I think it might be dissipating.

Last night, I crawled into bed a little later than I usually do.
After cleaning the kitchen, I started working on the computer again.
As planned I removed the video card, then continued to strip the
computer of any fringe parts that I wouldn't need - DVD reader, SD
card reader, as well as other silly parts and accessories from the
case.  To my delight, the computer booted - the onboard video card
worked great, and discarding all that extra plastic and metal was
gratifying.  I installed freenas on a USB and was having some issues
getting it to boot before I finally turned in for the night.  At least
the hardware is done - the next time I pick up this project, it will
just be a matter of setting up the software.

Maybe I'm thrown off from getting six hours of sleep.  It's been a
while since I've gone to bed this late.  Whatever it is, my energy is
feeling pretty zapped and I find it bewildering that it's only
Thursday.  If today is not a Friday, then it feels like a ten day
week.  I think I could just use a good, long nap - that's all.

I'm remembering just a few weeks ago when I fell asleep on the boat up
in Hayward.  We cut the motor, and I reclined on a seat underneath a
beach towel.  Moments later, I felt like I woke up in a different
dimension.  To me, that's the calling card of a really good nap - you
wake up feeling completely different than you did when you decided to
take a nap.  Or how about unplanned naps?  How great are those?
Earlier this week I plopped onto the couch for a quick snuggle with
Ziggy, and moments later I awoke feeling refreshed.  I bet if I
climbed into bed now and slept for three more hours, I'd have a very
different morning.  But there's no time for sleep.  It's Thursday.  We
got things to do.  I'm betting after a hot shower and a few more cups
of coffee, I'll blend right into the rest of my chipper, well-rested
cohorts.

And today should be a regular old Thursday.  I'll work, come home,
take Rodney to Hy-Vee, cook something, then put Rodney to bed.  I have
some more fiddling to do with the computer, but mark my words, a nap
on the couch is definitely happening tonight.

You should take a nap too.  Even if you're feeling rested, just lay
your head down and see what happens.  After all, the unplanned naps
are the best.  Let's have a Thursday!

*** 2019-08-09 Friday plex, cables, and strongbad

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty busy day.  Busy - but productive.  Despite
getting pulled in a few different directions, I still managed to get a
lot of work done.  Afterwards, I took Rod to Hy-Vee, and for dinner,
we made nachos - which turned out pretty good.  After putting Rod to
bed, what I should have done was worked for an hour or so on the plex
server, then took a nap or done something to relax, but I got fixated
and ended up working most of the night on the plex server.  I was at
such a good stopping point too.  I had already set up the drives,
configured the service, and instead of declaring victory and heading
downstairs for a celebratory beer and youtube binge with Marissa, I
kept working past 11PM on a new issue I found.

It's important to know when to stop working.  I enjoy working on the
computer, but I find that if I don't give myself plenty of time to
unplug and unwind, it throws me off and it's harder to relax.  Marissa
was pretty gracious about it and helped me catch up on chores.

This morning while waiting for the coffee to brew, I watched a few
strongbad emails.  It felt good to just sit there and watch something
silly.  I may have to see about working that into my morning routine.
It's a great way to start the day.

I don't even bother trying to explain Strongbad to people.  Back in
the day, I was as into it as you could be.  Arguably, Strongbad shaped
my writing style... or at least the snarky bits.  Sometimes while I'm
yammering away at the keyboard and I feel the need to take several
detours away from an anecdote for snarky commentary, I feel as if I'm
channeling my inner Strongbad.  And you better believe there's a
Strongbad in all of us.

Topic change - happy Friday!  As of 8AM today, I'm going on-call, but
I don't really mind.  This weekend I was planning on taking it easy
anyway.  We just got a new computer in the mail, and the last part
should be arriving either today or this weekend, but if not I can
always get a jump on setting it up.  And that's not the
angrily-figure-out-other-people's-software kind of work that I was
just lamenting, that's just the simple pleasure of assembling a
computer from parts and tidying the cables.  Cable management is
really another form of meditation.  It always puts me in a better
mood.

Hope you have a great Friday today.  If you want to enjoy it like I
do, find time this weekend to watch a few Strongbad emails and wrap
cables.

*** 2019-08-11 Sunday cribs, files, and games

Dear Journal,

This weekend has been deeply relaxing - so relaxing that I totally
spaced and forgot to make a journal entry.  All weekend, I've been
working on a new file server, and in the process learning all about
FreeNAS - which has been very entertaining.  But I've noticed that
sometimes when I get to working on new IT projects, it's hard to do
anything else.  I get so focused that I lose track of time and even
start to rush things a bit - moving forward with a project before I
fully understand what I'm doing.  Luckily, copying around large swaths
for data a few terabytes at a time, you have no choice but to
periodically walk away and do something else.

Let's just unwind the weekend and catch up.  Friday night was filled
with pizza and development milestones.  We finally converted Rodney's
crib into a bed.  For the first time in his life, he slept in an
unconfined space.  Even though he immediately fell asleep (and didn't
move the whole night), it was a weird feeling knowing that he could
walk out of his room at pretty much any time.  Marissa and I must have
peeked into his room at least once an hour.  He didn't move at all.
He even slept on the edge of the bed, as if a crib wall was there to
support him.  Old habits die hard, I guess.

On Saturday, we hung around the house in the morning and ate a late
breakfast.  It was Ziggy's birthday today, so I cut her a slice of
Dutch Baby (with no sugar of course) and topped it with some sliced
bananas.  She wolfed it down quickly, hardly leaving any time to savor
the milestone of being two years old.  That's only 14 in dog years, so
understandably she still has a patience problem.  After breakfast, we
took a family trip to Target to pick up a present for our neighbor
Lyra.  She too was celebrating a birthday.  After a family nap, Rodney
and I went to the grocery store to pick up some dinner.  We made
garlic pasta, and as a side, I served some pancetta with ricotta on
crackers with a few of our very own garden tomatoes.  After dinner, we
taught Rodney how to play Jenga.  He caught on fast, but I'm going to
level with you - my son might be the worst Jenga player ever.

We put Rodney to bed, and Marissa and I played cribbage.  I tried to
learn cribbage a few years ago and quit in a rage.  Perhaps I've
learned to be a bit more patience since then, but it started sticking
last night.  I still find it to be a tedious, ham-fisted mash-up of
several other more successful games, but I'm getting better at it, and
there's hope that one day I'll be able to play it without scratch
paper.  Maybe even while carrying a pleasant, uncomplicated
conversation.

This morning, I slept through my alarm and missed church, so we
attended the church of YouTube from our couch with coffee and
scrambled eggs.  We watched a sermon by Dr. Joe Stowell about
expectations.  Afterwards, we went for a long walk and got a beer at a
neighborhood brewery.  In a few minutes, I'll wake Rod up from his nap
and we'll head to the grocery store while more data finishes copying
to my file server.  Well technically, the file server is copying the
same data to itself.  I screwed up the initial configuration and I'm
still juggling my way out.

Hope you have a restful weekend, and I'll see you all on Monday.
Let's have a Sunday night!

*** 2019-08-12 Monday cooking, youtube, and being busy

Dear Journal,

Happy Monday!  Fun fact - this is actually the second journal entry
I've written this morning.  I've spent the last 23 minutes writing,
then while thinking about what to write and fiddling with my power
cord, I accidentally rebooted my computer without saving anything.
Not to worry, I'll just have to bring you back up to speed with the 7
minute version.  To sum up, my phone woke me up last night at 4:30
with what I thought was a work page, but just turned out to be a
Linked In notification.  I also found a new cooking YouTube channel
that is 80% solid advice and 20% blog spam that is still worth making
fun of.  The example I cited was their 4 minute video on "bringing
your caprese salad to the next level" which could have just been
summarized with "use expensive ingredients".  There - I think I'm
caught up.

This week should be pretty busy.  I'm on ticket duty, and after
absolutely crushing it last week our interns are running out of work.
So I have to do a bit of a scramble to keep them busy.  This Friday is
a work picnic, and this weekend the Rod man and I are holding it down
on our own while Marissa is at my sister's bridal shower.

I hope you all have a wonderful Monday morning.  To conclude this
brief post, I offer some parting advice: save your work before you
touch your power cable.

*** 2019-08-13 Tuesday morning, stirfry, projects, and gravy

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Tuesday!  This morning I jumped out of bed
much sooner than I usually do and enjoyed some YouTube while I waited
for the coffee to finish brewing.  I'm seriously considering making it
a personal installment in my morning routine.  Plus, I'm feeling much
more coherent than I'd normally be just rolling out of bed and
starting a journal entry.

Yesterday it felt pretty good to get back to work, but it was a really
busy day filled with planning and meetings.  Lately I've just kind of
accepted that on Mondays, I don't have much time at my desk.  I might
have a free half hour or hour, so once I sit down I try to make a
checklist of things I want to get done in that work session and then
crank 'em out.

After work, I took Rodney to the grocery store to pick up stuff to
make stir fry.  When I got home, he and Marissa were snuggling on the
couch under a blanket, and he didn't want to leave.  "No Hy-Vee.
Cozy," he said.  But as he heard me putting my shoes on and heading
out the door, he changed his mind and ran over to the kitchen to join
me.

When we got home, I made shrimp stir-fry with some vegetables.  I
still have a serious phobia with making rice, so I leaned on my good
friend Uncle Ben.  The stir fry turned out good, but not great.  I was
really shy with the sauce.  I used to have a problem of adding too
much sauce and too many vegetables, making it wet and difficult to
heat up, and it appears I've over-corrected.

After Rodney went to bed, I wrapped up another leg of the file server
project.  I got it to the point where I was ready to run the plex
server back on.  It's good to have plex back.  To celebrate (and kick
the tires on the new setup), I watched /I Think You Should Leave/ on
shuffle while I cleaned things up.

Today, I'm eager to finally decommission the old server.  I'll
re-purpose the remaining final two hard drives as redundancy, then
start brainstorming for how I'd like to put to work the two raspberry
pi's I've freed up.  I've had the hankering to play some old video
games, so there are good chances that a retropie will be involved.

I'm also eager to try out classic, traditional gravy.  I found a good
video and studied up, and I'm confident that I can get it working.

Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday today.  You can be sure I will
report back my gravy and file server success.

*** 2019-08-14 Wednesday computers, gravy, weekend, and agile

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Wednesday to everyone. I’m doing today’s
journal entry from our proud new dining room computer, which I just
finished building last night. I guess “building” is a generous term. I
ordered an Intel NUC, a stick of RAM, and a hard drive, and plugged
everything in. As per usual, way more time went into placing and
wrapping cables - which is absolutely an art form. This morning I’m
filling the new machine with games and other neat things. Marissa and
I agreed that it really jazzes up the dining room. Just having a
computer here increases it’s hang-out-ability by at least a factor of
four. We have a nice place to play music, pay bills, browse the web,
and of course play games. This weekend I’m going to set up a Minecraft
server, so in short, it was nice knowing all of you and the Recker
family will see you next year (kidding).

Yesterday was jam packed with meetings, cooking, and chores, but it
was a fulfilling day. I finally had a successful gravy
recipe. Watching the butter, flour, and stock combine is completely
magically - I’m still not even quite sure how gravy works, but the
formula is simple and almost feels like alchemy. Just watch - now I’m
going to be incorporating gravy into everything. Pizza. Pasta. Hot
dogs. Everything is going to get a hearty drizzle of homemade gravy!
Also kidding.

I’m really looking forward to the weekend. Not only does my on-call
shift end on Friday, but I have a work picnic pretty much all day, and
that rolls into a long guys only weekend. My wife will be in Chicago
for my sister’s bridal shower, so Rodney and I are holding things down
ourselves. And we have a new computer to play with. I think on
Saturday we’re going to cook something together, like a deep dish
pizza. Lately when I make food in the kitchen, he drags our little
step ladder out to join me - which is undeniably adorable, but an
extra element of challenge. I need to make sure he feels useful
without touching anything hot, sharp, or raw. Making a pizza is very
kid friendly, isn’t it? The dough is fun to play with, and grating
cheese is pretty benign, from a kitchen safety perspective. It’s more
fun for a kid than stir fry. Rodney walked into the kitchen on Monday
while I had a hot oily wok on the stove and asked “ladder? ladder?”
and I just turned him down, so I owe him a long cook-with-dad session.

So this week, the interns and I are trying out a new thing. We’re
doing a pretty old school agile workflow, keeping all the work on hand
written index cards taped to a whiteboard. It’s a bit ironic, but I
was taught that’s the best way to teach people how modern software
teams work. There’s a lot of rules and terminology to learn, and
having it all in once place right in front of you without the
distraction of software makes it easier. It’s also a real learning
experience for me - I’ve never actually had to teach anyone agile or
scrum, and it’s kind of fun - in an unexpected arts and crafts
way. We’re taping, drawing, and even putting little color coded
stickers on things. Welcome to the future, huh?

Well, hope you have a wonderful Wednesday today. Cook with your kids -
something other than stir fry.

*** 2019-08-15 Thursday salad, turnovers, youtube, and catch-up

Dear Journal,

Last night may have been the quickest I've ever fell asleep.  Marissa
and I turned in around 11:40, and I faded away very shortly after
that.  I didn't even check my phone or chat for a few minutes.  I was
pretty exhausted from the full mid week day.  Yesterday was a cooking
heavy day.  For dinner, I made a Caesar salad, which was surprisingly
involved.  I was following a recipe that instructed me to make the
sauce from scratch, and - most curiously - grill the lettuce.  I had
some close calls with a few romaine leaves catching on fire and
wilting into unappealing strands, but the moist hearts actually looked
pretty good with a bit of char, and once mixed into the rest of the
salad, it was easier to see what they were contributing.  The recipe
also had instructions of how to make your own croutons, but I punted
on that front and just bought a bag of good 'ol Hy-Vee brand.  And I'm
glad I did, otherwise me may have been eating dinner sometime around
when I went to bed.

After cleaning up all the smoldering lettuce left over from dinner, we
put Rod to bed.  Marissa worked on some tasks for the upcoming bridal
shower this weekend while I made a little batch of faux meat
saucijzenbroodjes for a friend.  I had some left over puff pastry, and
running with a tip I got from my little sister I decided to bide my
time by making some turnovers.  I didn't have any apples on hand, but
bananas did fine.  There's very few things that don't work in hot
butter and sugar.  The turnovers puffed up really nicely - if I had
known how easy these were, I would have bought a whole extra sleeve of
puff pastry and made a proper batch!

We wrapped up chores and kitchen shenanigans some time around 11:00.
I had a beer and watched some youtube videos with Marissa on our fancy
new dining room computer.  The playlist included [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8h3hJJbdJQA][Anthony Fantano's
review of the new Bon Iver album]] as well as a [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jvy7eXMxE9Y][special Editor Edition
Dude Perfect]], which honestly was so entertaining it left us
speechless.  Marissa and I used to watch Dude Perfect sort of
ironically, but now the irony is lost and we just actually enjoy them,
despite the fact that it's pretty much targeted at 12 year old boys.

I see today as the final hurdle before getting to the weekend.  I'm
running a bit behind in ticket duty, so I'll have to block off some
time and catch up on support tickets & questions.  I try not to
finish the week with any loose threads.  Tomorrow is our end of the
week demo, retro, and company picnic, leaving today as pretty much the
last day to get any real work done.

So let's hit it hard today.  Let's squeeze as many work hours out of
this uncharacteristically chilly Thursday as we can.  A thorough
Thursday makes for a fun Friday - alliteration intended.  Hope you
have a great day today.

*** 2019-08-16 Friday naps, pizza, walks, drinking, and wrestling

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Friday everyone!  Yesterday was quite the
day.  It was pretty much end-to-end meetings, the last of which being
the staging DR exercise that the interns and I have been planning over
the last month.  It was pretty tense.  We hit a few snags, but
all-in-all, it was successful and pretty impressive.  We grabbed a
beer at the work happy hour gathering to celebrate and debrief before
I jumped on the bus to head home.

After getting home, I was surprised to find that Rodney was still
asleep.  I was in no hurry, since we had decided to eat out somewhere
and there was no need to make dinner.  I climbed under a blanked on
the couch, joined by Zig Zig.  At first, we watched a few YouTube
videos, but it quickly turned into a deep, solid thirty minute nap.
Ziggy slept up by my head with her nose nestled in between my neck and
the pillow.  I felt like I was drifting through space - it was an
excellent nap, and so rewarding after a busy day.

I woke up to Rodney yelling DADA at the top of the stairs.  With great
reluctance, I emerged from the most snug place in the universe so we
can get on with our evening plans.  We decided to walk to the new
Ian's pizza that sprang up in our neighborhood about 0.8 miles away.
By evening, the cloudy sky had cooled the air, and mysteriously the
mosquitoes weren't out last night, making for a wonderful walk down
the nature path to this exciting new pizza place.  The location was a
former factory, and it is being refitted into some kind of miniature
indoor bistro.  While waiting in line for our pizza, there was plenty
of room for Rodney to run around.

We enjoyed our pizza and a couple of beers on a picnic table outside.
The dogs didn't get to eat anything, but they had their fill in
attention.  They were very popular with the bike path crowd, and Ollie
and Ziggy basked in the brief popularity.

After we walked home, I put Rod to bed while Marissa mowed the lawn.
I worked a bit on the Minecraft server.  Marissa and I are going to
try to play tonight while she is spending the night in Chicago, so it
was important that I figured out the networking ahead of time.  Once I
got it to a working condition, I joined her in the dining room and we
caught up on some YouTube videos.  Last night's playlist was the new
[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCXfezz4BB8][Hot Ones interview featuring Stone Cold Steve Autstin]].  Steve Austin
was a pleasure to listen to.  Podcasters are very loquacious, and
being a professional wrestler he had lots of interesting anecdotes
about the industry.  While "professional wrestling" is a form of
staged, fabricated entertainment, you can go down a really interesting
rabbit hole reading about the culture, the daily life, and close-nit
bond that these wrestlers experience.

Today is nothing short of a victory lap for the week.  We have a few
meetings that lead up to lunch, then we're heading over to the park
for the company picnic, where free beer and food abounds for the weary
worker.  I am due back home at five, but as I'm taking the bus home
I'm planning on rocking a mild, mid day buzz, then tapering off in the
afternoon.  You gotta be careful with those Wisconsin craft beers,
though.  The difference between two, three, and four beers is a whole
order of magnitude.  Now that I mention it, I might as well break down
my system.  If you want to enjoy a craft beer, but still be productive
immediately afterwards, one beer is perfect.  If you must, get a
second, but do not finish it.  The maximum beers you can enjoy
productively is literally 1.9, so enjoy the second one if you're
having a good conversation, but whatever you do, do not finish it.
For some reason, exactly two beers is enough to break the party
barrier.  Anything between two to three beers can be called "the
Friday night zone", as this should only be enjoyed on a weekly basis -
perfect for unwinding after a tough week.  But a fourth beer is
usually asking for trouble.  This should not be attempted unless
you're prepared to deal with the consequences, or you need to show
somebody up on the dance floor at a wedding.  May as well call four
beers "the wedding zone".  To review, I intend to hang out in the
Friday night zone through lunch.  Again, this system only applied to
craft beers, if you're drinking a standard PBR or a lager, those tend
to be a little more forgiving (and hydrating).  Lastly, a good rule of
thumb to follow is try to drink one pint of regular old water for
every pint of beer you drink.  Your stomach will thank you.

Hope you all have a fun, relaxing Friday night.  Grab a drink, you've
earned it.

*** 2019-08-17 Saturday picnic, pizza, photos, minecraft, and spiderman

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was wonderful.  I got to work at my usual time, had a few
meetings, then caught a ride to the company picnic.  It loosely
followed a "county fair" theme, but in a very cool, laid back kind of
way.  Besides a few games to play and a giant slide, it was pretty
much a time to drink beer, eat some food, and hang out.  Among the
selections was PBR, so it turns out I didn't need to follow my
rigorous, fool proof system for staying sober after all.

I had some good success with the carnival games!  I rang the bell with
the mallet, played some ring toss, and almost guessed the mystery beer
down to the brewery and type.  The drinking and standing around in the
sun must have made me more upfront than usual.  When the person
running the beer guessing game asked me if I knew who the brewery was,
I yelled out "because Capital Brewery SUCKS."  I don't know if he
worked for Capital Brewery, but it got a good laugh out of him.  And
it's true, they do suck, so I stand by the exclamation.

We made our way back to the office and I caught my usual 4:30 bus
home.  Marissa was all packed up and ready to leave, so after a quick
farewell she hit the road and Rodney and I started on our pizza.  We
had a good time.  Rodney kept eating the cheese that we grated and set
aside for the toppings, and he thought it was pretty funny and kept
sneaking bites even after I "yelled" at him.  We also used the dough
trimmings to make some breadsticks - well, Rod took some creative
liberty and mashed them into little patties.  So they were like little
biscuits, and they turned out pretty good, he might be on to
something.

I put Rodney to bed, then worked a bit on the computer.  I set up a
wallpaper randomizer for the dining room computer, and as I was
populating with images I got to just browsing old photos.  It's fun to
look back and see everything that changed - especially how things were
2-3 years ago.  It's a bit of a nostalgia blind-spot for me.  We were
in the same house, and we had a kid, and for the most part did all the
same things we do today, but the little things jump out at you - like
the color of the walls, what you were eating, and how you had things
organized.

It was a pretty quiet, lonely night without Marissa.  It sucks
spending the night apart from your spouse.  We met up around 11:20 for
a minecraft date, and that was a highlight.  It was fun to get back
into minecraft and use the downtime of waiting for the virtual sun to
rise to just catch up with the built-in Minecraft chat.

I called it sometime around 1:00 AM and turned in for bed.  The
puppies were really bummed that they had to go to bed without their
momma.

This morning, Rod is watching Spider-Man - the 2002 Toby Maguire
movie.  He's really taken with it lately.  And I don't know what he
sees in it - don't get me wrong - it's a great movie, but it's just
way more Toby Maguire and not really that much Spider-Man.  And it's a
lot of Willem Dafoe.  I find it so funny that Rodney is sitting on the
couch with a toy in his lap, absent-mindedly watching Willem Dafoe
perform a dramatic monologue in an old mansion.

After journal & coffee time, Rodney and I are going to walk to the
grocery store, checking out the construction on Oak street along the
way.  Don't tell Mom, but when she comes home we're going to have
prepared an Italian feast!

Hope you have a wonderful Saturday today.  In the words of Willem
Dafoe, "You are who you choose to be - NOW CHOOSE!"

*** 2019-08-19 Monday minecraft, files, carbonara, and plans

Dear Journal,

Good morning to everyone, and happy Monday!  Marissa and I are heading
into a long stint of busy weekends.  The theme of this weekend was
definitely "rest while you can".  We did as little as possible, taking
every chance we could to sit on the couch as a family and keep a low
profile.  It was definitely relaxing, but the /Sunday scaries/ were
palpable, and not even just on Sunday.

We squeezed a lot of time out of this weekend to play Minecraft.  It's
funny how Marissa and I are already exhibiting different approaches to
wilderness survival.  I'm sleeping on a bed in the middle of a random
island and spending most of my time in my mine, where I've just kind
of dropped things where they're most practical and have opted to take
care of the aesthetics later.  Last night I wandered over to Marissa's
house, where it seems she's going with the opposite approach.  There's
a giant winding staircase that leads far into the sky to a platform.
Sure, not as practical, but a hell of a view.

I also caught some time to clean up the plex server.  I combed over my
movie collection and fixed up some misnamed files.  I couldn't be more
pleased with the new file server.  On Friday, I spun everything down
and added two more drives into the storage pool.  To free up USB
ports, I had to move the boot drive, and for the most part everything
was perfectly in tact when it powered back up.  Next time I get a
chance, I'm going to set up both the router & file server to
automatically reboot something like once a week at three in the
morning.  Even though a good system shouldn't need frequent reboots,
it's a good way to ensure everything is correctly configured and
self-healing, and that especially comes in handy with unexpected
reboots, like power outages.

Also did a bit of cooking this week.  I made carbonara last night,
which was a luxurious pasta made with egg, grated cheese, and
pancietta, but I made the fatal flaw of over-salting the pasta water.
Combined with the salty pork, the whole thing just tasted like a
sodium party.  I packed up some for my lunch today, but I think my
fingers are still swollen from yesterday's portion, I may just be
eating out for lunch today.

In my defense, there are way too many videos encouraging you to make
pasta water "taste like the ocean", but not nearly enough videos
warning you about over-salting.  Which is especially a problem if you
use the pasta water in the sauce.  Because this has happened a few
times already, I need to find time come up with my own formula for a
balanced salt-to-water ratio.  Currently my process involves me adding
salt incrementally to a big pot of water, stirring and awkwardly
lapping it with a spoon to check for flavor.  I haven't tasted the
ocean in a while, maybe my reference point is just a little out of
date.

This week is the intern's final week, so I have a lot of planning and
coordinating to do to transition them out of the summer program.
We're also going to have them over at the end of the week for a pizza
party.  As a joke, I adapted the term "pizza party" at the beginning
of the internship as kind of a vacuous promise for them getting their
work done, so I thought it would be funny if I actually threw one for
them at the end of the year.  This Friday, we're going to have them
over and make a /sfincione/ together.

I was also hit by the realization that I have less than two weeks to
get everything together for my high school reunion.  I have a few
dangling email threads full of suggestions, but in the interest of
time I may just have to start making some decisions.  I'm sort of glad
it snuck up on me, to be honest.  It's one of those commitments that's
been sort of looming over my head all summer and I'm partly relieved
it's already here.  Plus, it shouldn't be too difficult to plan.  It's
just a pot-luck at my high school with a few dozen people.

In case you too have a busy week ahead, I hope you got some /you/ time
in this weekend.  The hectic end of summer plans are converging right
in front of us in a perfect storm, but look on the bright side.  At
least you don't have to dread it any more - it's already here, and by
the end of the week, it will be half gone.

Have a wonderful week, everyone.

*** 2019-08-20 Tuesday calendar, velcro, minecraft, and batter

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I had a pretty productive day yesterday.  I
only had a few meetings in the morning, so in the afternoon I made a
list of things I had to do and went through them, one-by-one.  It felt
good to catch up on things, and when I got home, the momentum
continued.  Marissa and I sat down and synced up the calendar for the
next few weeks.  For one, I had the date for the reunion wrong.  It
turns out I have and extra week to work on things.  And the upcoming
weekends don't look so bad.

After going over our calendar, I put some more work into the dining
room computer, adding velcro ties to cables.  If you have some cable
issues of your own and you're still living in the dark days of zip
ties, duct tape, or just "wild style", I couldn't recommend [[https://www.amazon.com/VELCRO-Brand-Reusable-Fastening-Organizing/dp/B001E1Y5O6][these
velcro wraps]] more.  They hold just as tightly as tape, but come off
really easily and they're reusable.

After tidying up the computer, I got some well-earned Minecraft time
in.  I'm currently making a bridge from my little platform to the
shore, building it right against the water.  Still trying to keep
things practical, and it's working out.  I think this may be one of my
favorite spots I've ever picked.  I'm way out on the ocean on this
little island.  Building on water always works out well because it's
easy to grow crops, and there are way less monsters to deal with.

For dinner (real dinner, not Minecraft), I made fried fish.  I think
I've really honed my batter recipe.  The secret is to make it very
watery.  It's tempting to stir in more flour and make it velvety and
appetizing, but you have to stop a little sooner when it's just a
little thicker than cream.  I also cut the fish into really small
pieces - little strips that cooked in the oil in about forty seconds.
It was a great batch, and I was happy with it.

Today will be more of the same.  Still finishing up intern work.
We're writing a blog post about our project now, which involves
compiling all the trial data, making diagrams, and lots of writing.
So this week feels like a victory lap with lots of editing.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Happy Tuesday, everyone.

*** 2019-08-21 Wednesday burgers, chores, interns, and vancouver

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a bit of a rough one.  I had a pretty busy day at work,
bouncing from one thing to another, and I didn't get any writing
done.  I still have today and tomorrow to finish the intern blog, but
the way I see it, most of it probably has to get done this afternoon,
so coming down to the wire.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee and we picked up some burgers.
Marissa was in the mood for something easy, so I just grabbed some
pre-made burger patties and buns.  After starting the grill and
cutting up the toppings, we all hung out outside to enjoy the charcoal
smell.  Somehow, I pulled the burgers off the grill just a bit early,
and I had already gone on to add the toppings, so I couldn't throw
them back on.  Luckily none of us got really sick, but the meal didn't
sit right in my stomach, and I could tell that Rod wasn't sleeping
well.  I stuck his burger in the microwave for a whole minute to
finish cooking it, but maybe it was the grease or something.

Messing up dinner is a crummy feeling, isn't it?  For how happy it can
make you feel watching people get up from the table for seconds or
wolf down leftovers late at night, there's an equal and opposite
reaction when your food makes people sick.

I spent about an hour cleaning up the kitchen.  On Tuesday's I move
everything off the counter tops and Windex everything, then I sweep
the floor.  It was also knife sharpening day.  Once a month, I sharpen
our six nicest knives with a whetstone.  I run them through the
dishwasher again to make sure there are no metal filings around, then
rub the wood cutting board down with mineral oil.

It felt good to sort of lose myself in kitchen chores yesterday.  I
liked having time to think and collect myself after a busy day and a
botched dinner.  After chores, I sat on the couch with Marissa and
watched some TV.  I perused my usual YouTube channels to stock up on
recipe ideas.  After tonight's burger mishap, I could use a good
comeback.  Later in the evening, Marissa got up to heat up some
leftover fried fish from yesterday, so I got to have that warm feeling
after all.

Today is a busy morning.  On Wednesdays I meet with each of the
interns for some 1-on-1 time, asking them about their week, getting
feedback, or just chit-chatting.  Those 1-on-1s lead right into a
farewell intern lunch.  After lunch, I'm probably going to hide out in
a quiet room and knock out some writing.

While sipping coffee just now, I got to staring at our computer
wallpaper.  I set up a little program on our dining room computer that
randomly changes the wallpaper every fifteen minutes, sourcing the
choices from a folder that I filled up with random pictures.  Marissa
even added a bunch yesterday too.  Right now it's set to a picture I
took off the back porch of the place we stayed at in Vancouver.  We
have a few pics from up right against the railing, but this one is
just a shot from my chair by the sliding glass door, and all you can
see is my knees in front of a few feet of concrete.  You can still see
the beautiful city, but it's behind the railing, which runs up the
rest of the picture.  Marissa and I were too spooked to hang out right
up against the waist high metal railing - it was just too high and the
railing was too flimsy.  I like this picture because it really
captures the sentiment of the trip.  Vancouver was a beautiful city,
but unexpectedly gritty and a little dangerous, and we had to
experience it with just a bit of hesitation.

Time to get going.  Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  If you
too messed up last night's dinner, don't sweat it.  Just keep your
cutting board clean, your knives sharp, and try again tonight.

Let's have a Wednesday!

*** 2019-08-22 Thursday kigong, interns, busses, and chess

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  I got a lot done yesterday.  The morning was
filled with meetings, then we went out to lunch with the interns.  I
had a hot bowl of ramen, which put me in a good mood for the rest of
the day.  I bounced around different rooms to do some writing, taking
a break at 2 PM for a Ki Gong session.  When I got to the fitness
room, there was a little sign on the door noting that class would be
held on the capital lawn.  When I got there, it was just the
instructor Justin, but I stayed to do some Ki Gong with him and it was
really relaxing.  It was a lot easier to focus on my breathing outside
feeling the grass on my feet.  There were a lot of bugs in the lawn,
and occasionally a fly or a few ants would wander of my ankles,
testing my concentration.

After the session, we chatted about Ki Gong for a bit.  I shared with
him that I think it might be helping with my anger.  The anger was
caused by other things, but it's always worsened with stress, and I
have a much less stressful day whenever I make time for Ki Gong at
work.  The slow breathing and smooth movements usually take my mind
out of whatever I was working on and give me a chance to reset my
brain.  It feels good to not think about anything, and just practice
breathing.

After Ki Gong, I wrapped up the blog post and met back with the
interns for a quick sync up.  I got to see some of their slides, as
well as the video showing off their new easy button.  I was pretty
blown away, I think it's going to be a really big deal at the
company.  And honestly I feel like I spent most of the time just
watching them work from the sidelines.  As our time together this
summer is coming to a close, I spent a lot of time yesterday
reflecting on how cool it's been to work alongside them.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee to pick up a few things to make
Carbonara.  Before leaving, while I was changing him, Rod got all
excited about busses, and I thought he was talking about them in the
abstract, so I joined in.  "Yeah, dude, the bus?  Sweet, busses ARE
sweet, you got that right."  But after he put his backpack on and
wandered to the end of the driveway, it became clear to me that he
thought we were going to take the bus somewhere instead of our usual
Hy-Vee car ride.  I was pretty crushed, and what made it worse was
that he was pretty mature about the miscommunication.  He just let out
a quick whimper, then climbed into his car seat and asked to listen to
his favorite album.

So whatever we're doing this weekend, you can be sure it will be
involved taking the bus somewhere.  We're thinking about taking the
bus downtown on Saturday to go to the Farmer's market.

The Carbonara turned out great.  Rod wanted to help, so I put him on
basil-ripping duty, but he kept wandering away from his workstation
and eating cheese off the cutting board.

Marissa put Rod to bed while I played chess on our dining room
computer.  I hadn't checked in on my chess skills in a while, and I'm
sad to report that the computer absolutely kicked my butt.  I guess I
don't have the best strategy.  I don't know much about chess strategy,
but I'm guessing there is /never/ a time where you are allowed to just
move a piece and say "eh, let's see what happens now".  You know how
the measure of a good chess player is how many moves ahead they are,
mentally?  I think when I play, I'm -1 moves, meaning I don't even
understand the last move I made.

After giving up on chess for the night, I did some chores.  On
Wednesdays, I clean the microwave, the stove, and the fridge.  Marissa
had a new water heater installed, and she discovered that you can set
how hot the water gets.  As a result of tweaking the setting, the
water in the kitchen sink was hotter, and it was way easier to get
grime off of the stove.

After chores, I tidied up my upstairs computer.  It was long overdue,
I still had parts strewn about after stripping down the file server,
and to pass the time I reinstalled my OS.  I was running out of disk
space, and now that we have a dining room computer, I don't have any
use for games and kids stuff upstairs, so I did without all of that
and just set up the basics needed for journaling, notes, and email.

Today should be a good day.  On Thursdays, we take a break from
cooking and eat out while running errands - it's usually Portillo's. I
think I'm getting fitted for a suit, so definitely looking forward to
having someone wrap a tape measure around my legs and waist after a
heavy, greasy Portillo's dinner.

Hope you all have a wonderful Thursday today.  Go out somewhere for
dinner today - you earned it.

*** 2019-08-23 Friday typing, errands, sauce, and chess

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  And happy Friday to you all.  I think it's
safe to say that we made it to the end of the week.  I love writing
blog posts on Friday.  Not only does Friday put me in a good mood, but
having a whole work week to look back on, there's plenty of things to
write about.

Yesterday was a pretty light day of work.  In the morning, I helped a
friend with their python script, then finished putting my paper
together.  While combing my essay for errors, one of the interns asked
why I put two spaces after each period.  I was pretty tickled by that,
because it comes up every now and then.  The Internet will tell you
that double spacing after periods is a relic from typing on a
typewriter, and it exists in the modern world thanks to old people.
But I meet enough young people that also practice /ye olde double
tap/ - enough to question that theory.  Maybe you don't have to be old
to put two spaces after a period.  I acknowledge that it's
unnecessary, but I challenge any single spaced heathen out there to
try it on a really clicky keyboard, then tell me it's unnecessary.

After getting my essay out, I decided to snoop around and do some work
reading.  I have been working with the interns all summer, and I was
starting to feel as if I was in my own bubble.  I spent a good hour
pulling on threads, reading meeting notes and announcements.  It can
be fun starting with a public announcement, then following the bread
crumbs all the way back to the project kickoff or first proposal.

After work, Rodney, Marissa, and I made our way to the suit store so I
could get measurements taken.  As the attendant was measuring me,
Rodney yelled out "GOOD JOB DADA" each time my arms went up or down.
I guess it's nice to get so much positive affirmation from my son for
doing so little, even if it means everyone else in the store
snickering.

We ate dinner at Portillo's.  As we ate, Marissa and I discussed their
barbecue sauce.  If you haven't been initiated, Portillo's makes their
own barbecue sauce and it's pretty delicious - but as we discussed
yesterday it must be the sugar.  I feel like an old fashion sauce is
really tangy and pickly, but Portillo's sweetens the heck out of it.
If you close your eyes and focus, you can almost imagine it being made
like a BBQ flavored cake frosting.

After dinner, we stopped by the Jenny Street grocery store.  We're
having the interns over to make pizza, so we wanted to get the good
ingredients.  Jenny Street has a great cheese selection.  We picked up
some mozzarella, pecorino, parmesan reggiano, and though they didn't
have any provolone, they had something called /provolono/ that looked
and felt like provolone, so I took a gamble.

After putting Rodney to bed, I caught up on emails and other random
tasks, watched some YouTube, and played a few games of chess.  To my
disappointment, I discovered the computer has been set to "easy" all
along.  Last night, it got check mate in only five moves.  You really
need to be careful, even while playing defensively.  If you don't move
enough pieces, you can get sniped by a bishop and fall victim to a
very impressive trap.

Today will be a lot of meetings, but for the most part I'm just
sitting back as an observer.  We're meeting with the interns to get
feedback from them so we can improve the intern program.  I'm also
hosting a big presentation to the rest of Madison engineering, giving
the interns a chance to show off what they did this summer.  I saw
most of the slides yesterday, I think it will be a good show.

Hope you all have a wonderful Friday today.  Play some chess - even if
you're terrible at it.  It's still fun to see how many different ways
you can lose.

*** 2019-08-25 Sunday nostalgia, market, and gnocchi

Dear Journal,

Good morning!  Hope everyone is having a wonderful weekend.  On
Friday, we had the interns and Andrew over for the end of the summer
pizza party I had been promising.  It was a great time, and it was
actually pretty easy to get two pizzas in and out of the oven with all
the extra help.  It was a great evening of reminiscing.

Talking to newly graduated interns must have put me in a nostalgic
mood.  Later that night, I was procrastinating cleaning up after the
party by hanging out in the basement with Marissa while she cut
frames.  I started rifling through my "keep's sake" bin, which is
filled with photos, school papers, notes, and strange little trinkets
from my childhood.  I have an old coke I got on a train going through
the grand canyon, and it's still filled with coke.  As I explained to
Marissa, it's not valuable or anything - I just made a pact with Kelly
to not open our respective coke bottles.  I think it was just to
bother Sarah, who immediately opened hers and quickly drank it on the
train.  But there it is twenty years later still unopened, and I'm
pretty sure Kelly hasn't opened hers either.

We went to bed late on Friday, and gave ourselves a late start
Saturday morning.  I finished cleaning the kitchen from the party, and
made some Dutch babies.  We were eating a big breakfast because our
plans would take us on a bus to the Farmer's market.  Now this was
technically our first time at the Weekend farmer's market, but I had
walked by the much smaller Wednesday market plenty of times, so I was
expecting about a dozen vegetable stands, and maybe a food cart or
two.  I had no idea that on Saturday's during the summer, they shut
down the whole square and the booths pretty much wrapped all the way
around the capital.  It was a bit of a fiasco.  Rodney, Marissa, and I
quickly got overwhelmed waddling through the crowd.  But we regrouped
at Starbucks, and after spending some time in the AC drinking familiar
coffee, we got a second wind and perused the rest of the shops.  We
picked up some kale, cherry tomatoes, apples, and a beautiful stalk of
sunflowers.  We also picked up a bag of kettle corn to share before
heading over to the terrace to conclude our day on the square by
having a drink with our friend's Alex and Cassie.  It was their sixth
anniversary on Saturday, and we were pretty honored they were spending
time with us.  Being long time Madison locals, we've grown to trust
their perspective on Madison, and it was a relief to hear them
validate our frustrations with the over-crowding at the weekend
farmer's market.

After catching the bus home, Rodney, Marissa and I took a long nap,
waking up some time around 6:30.  I was loosely committed to cooking
something for dinner, but that ship had sailed, and we decided to walk
to Ian's pizza.  We had been out and about all day, but the dogs would
appreciate the exercise, and they get plenty of attention when we walk
to the new location in our neighborhood.

This morning, I'm pleased to say we made it to church.  We've had a
bit of a dry spell, but with the help of bacon, hot coffee, and me
weaponizing our toddler into the most persistent alarm clock ever
devised, we made it to the early summer service.

So that's been the weekend thus far.  In a few moments, I'll go get
started on making ricotta basil gnocchi.  This is another suspenseful
redemption recipe.  I tried Gordon Ramsay's potato gnocchi a few
months ago, and it resulted in such a spectacular, sopping, burnt
failure that we ordered Domino's.  This evening, I place my trust in
Chef John, who discloses a egg, cheese, and flour based gnocchi that
promises to be a lot less complicated.  We're also turning our
farmer's market haul into a simple raw kale salad, so even if the
gnocchi doesn't turn out, at least I've finally earned my "Madison
Farmer's Market Hippie" badge eh?

Hope you all have a great weekend.

*** 2019-08-26 Monday gnocchi, work, and philly

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  What a beautiful morning.  Not conventionally
nice morning - it's chilly, the sun isn't out yet, and it looks like
it's going to rain pretty much all day.  But after a long, humid,
buggy summer, the change is welcomed.  I've been dying to wear a
hoodie to work again, and today I may get my wish.

I had a wonderful weekend.  We got plenty of outdoor time, cooked some
good recipes, and had plenty of moments to recharge.  Yesterday's
gnocchi turned out really good, and it was pretty easy to make.  I
used two spoons to form the gnocchi, using that technique where you
pass a little wad of dough back and forth until it forms a pillow,
then you just gently shimmy it into hot water.  The first few came out
a little rough, but I got the hang of it.  Once all the gnocchi were
made, I browned them in butter on cast iron.  The brown looked pretty
cool against the green (there was lots of basil ground into the dough,
I promise it was supposed to come out green).  Not only did I redeem
my first gnocchi attempt, but now I have a recipe that uses a whole
container of ricotta cheese.  And I also know how to find the ricotta
at my grocery store.  For some reason, it disappeared from the usual
cheese wall, making me question if it was "out of season" or if
ricotta was actually hard to come by during certain times of the year,
but they just moved it over by the cream.

I'm pretty tired today.  I must not have slept very well, I'm having a
hard time getting any thoughts going this morning, which is why I'm
finding it easier to just focus on what's currently in my stomach
instead.  Today will be the first regular work day I've had in a
while.  Instead of running stand-up for the interns and handing out
work, I'm going back to just being a regular guy on my team.  I'm
looking forward to laying low today.  I'm going to knock out some
individual work, and maybe even listen to a podcast or something.
Then I'll sneak out somewhere for a quick bite.

This week, I think I can't avoid planning for the reunion.  I had the
week wrong in my head, which earned me a whole extra week of putting
it off, but now it's /actually/ two weeks away and it's time to get
the ball rolling.

For dinner tonight, I'm planning on making some Philly cheese steak
sandwiches.  I watched a video last night - it just involves searing a
cheap steak in olive oil, then cooking it on a bed of onions.  It all
gets cut up and mixed with some cream cheese and peppers, then baked
on a sandwich bun.  Since our dog Ziggy was born near Philly, we joked
that she's been /dying/ to have a cheese steak again since moving to
the land of cheese heads, so this is partly inspired by her hometown.

I think the coffee is finally kicking in.  I feel quickened with life,
and suddenly I'm feeling motivated enough to shave this morning.  I've
crossed that definite threshold that separates "indifferent, the style
choice" from "indifferent".

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  This morning before heading
out, grab your favorite hoodie.  It might still be a little too warm
for it, but you can always take it off later.  This morning, we can
together live in the delusion that fall is here.

*** 2019-08-27 Tuesday weather, goodfood, cheesesteak, software, and tv

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  I love a weekend as much as the next guy, but
it felt nice to get back to work yesterday.  It stayed pretty rainy
and cloudy throughout all the day, which made it really easy to focus
on getting work done.  We're creatures of our environment, aren't we?
It's funny how something as simple as the weather can influence how we
work - even indoors.

For lunch, I went for a quick walk to go take out some cash.  I needed
bus fare for the ride home, and yesterday morning I had to borrow some
from Rodney's piggy bank.  Later I laughed with Marissa about how
strange it felt to steal money out of a child's piggy bank, taking
great care not to wake him up with the sound of jangling coins.  I
imagined I owed money to a bookie, or I was about to go hit a casino.
But I didn't - Rodney knows I'm good for it.  By the end of the day I
paid him back with interest.

For lunch, I grabbed a chicken wrap from the Good Food cart.  Their
name, which really is /Good Food/, makes it hard to rave about them.
Can you picture it?  "Hey that looks pretty good, what are you eating
Alex?"  /Good Food/.  "Um OK.  Yeah it does look good."  But the name
is literally the only bad thing about the /Good Food/ cart.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee to pick up stuff for philly cheese
steaks.  I love the kind of meals that come together from economical
ingredients.  To my delight, this recipe called for about a pound of
regular low-end sirloin.  I only had to buy one steak, sandwich rolls,
and a few other things we like having in the house anyway, like cream
cheese, kimchi, and a white onion.

When we got home, I put Rodney to work on the buns.  I don't think he
quite grasped that I wanted him to hollow out the inside of the
sandwich rolls, but he seemed to enjoy himself just moving the bread
crumbs from one bowl to another.  Meanwhile, I was searing the steak
in some olive oil, admiring my big stainless steel pan in its element.
I gave the steak a good sear, then moved in some chopped white onions
to cook around and under the meat.  After letting the steak cool, I
cut it up into small pieces and tossed it with the cooked onions,
cream cheese, kimchi, and shredded provolone.  Rodney was still
working on the bread crumbs, but he helped himself to plenty of
shredded provolone right off the cutting board, and I couldn't yell at
him because I do the same.  We stuffed the sandwiches with meat
filling then topped with more cheese.  They baked for about fifteen
minutes.  Being a Philly native, I let Ziggy eat the little bit of
filling left in the mixing bowl.  That's only fair, right?

After wolfing down the cheese steak sandwiches, we caught up around
the dinner table.  Marissa and Rod had a pretty cozy day too.  Marissa
just got a pretty big art commission for a company in California, so
she's been pretty busy holding it down for Astuary Art.  Rod watched
TV, played with toys, and read books.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa worked in the shop a little longer
and I cleaned up the kitchen before working a bit on the upcoming
class reunion.  In "potluck" style, I made a list of things to bring
and created a Google form to help people fill it out.  I hadn't looked
at the Google office suite in a while, but my word has it gotten good!
I was impressed with how well Forms integrates with sheets.  I
chuckled thinking of all the college assignments I bungled, limping by
most of my college career on pirated versions of excel, creating
multiple copies of the same spreadsheet, handing out my dropbox
password to everyone in my study group.  Seeing all the new web based
tools available for students almost makes me want to go back and do
college again.  /Almost/.

We concluded the evening by finally checking out /The Handmaid's
Tale/.  We were pretty impressed!  The whole dystopian America thing
is very creeping, as it's compelling.  Over the hour long first
episode, it was so much fun to mentally piece together the rules of
their backwards society.  We have two whole seasons to watch, so it
looks like we're going to be busy.

So that's our time together.  Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday
today.  It looks like the weather will be much warmer today, so the
Fall delusion is over for now.  Today, go for a walk, eat some /Good
Food/, and get your work done.

*** 2019-08-28 Wednesday filler, rice, mayflies, and spiderman

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  I'm coming to you today from
home a little later than usual.  Marissa and I stayed up late watching
the Handmaid's Tale, then even later to do laundry, so I appreciated
the extra forty-five minutes of sleep.  In a few moments, I'll wake
her up to go to agility class with Ziggy and Ollie while the Rod man
and I hold it down here at home.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I got some good work done in the
morning, then heated up my cheese steak for lunch.  It's funny how
when they're reheated, the smell vaguely reminds me of a microwaved
cheeseburger from McDonald's.  I'm sure that's no coincidence, there
must be some crossover in how they're made.  Or maybe they're just
both greasy, beefy guilty pleasures.

I continued working after lunch and finished pretty much everything I
had for the day around three, so I started thinking about what to make
for dinner.  Marissa had just ordered a big bag of this special brand
of white rice, going off of a recommendation from somebody we met in
Vancouver.  So after chatting on slack, we decided to go with salmon,
asparagus, and of course, white rice.

After getting home around five, I got Rod in the car to go to Hy-Vee.
He was in a pretty bad mood yesterday.  Usually he's very chatty on
the way to the grocery store, but yesterday he just sat and quietly
muttered to himself.  At one point, he asked me something about
airplanes, but lost his patience with me when I couldn't figure out
what he was saying.  I think he's finally picking up on my standard
phrases I use as filler when there is a breakdown in adult-toddler
communication.  "Yeah dude, airplanes?  They ARE awesome."  I can't
blame him, that is a little condescending, isn't it?  Can you imagine
talking to someone with a thick accent or who was new to English, and
just responding to them, "Yeah dude, AIRPLANES?  Awesome!  Thumbs
up!".

When we got home, Rod helped me put some of the groceries away, then I
started on dinner.  To my great relief, the instructions for making
rice were right on the side of the bag, so I didn't need to slog
through those crummy overly personal food blogs to find a consistent
formula.  Making rice has always felt so tedious to me - the rinsing,
the very specific proportions that differ per type and grain size, the
timing.  I've committed to learning it, being a pretty fundamental
ingredient to a lot of other dishes, but I cook things that I enjoy
and it goes without saying why I don't cook rice very much.

This recipe was pretty straight forward.  Just 1 cup of rice, 1.5 cups
of water, simmer for ten twenty minutes covered, off the heat covered
for twenty minutes, then "fluff" with a fork.  Oh, how fancy for you
rice!  I get to fluff you with a fork.  In the time and dirty dishes
it took to make you, I probably could made a whole batch of philly
cheese steaks.  Excuse my hostility here, I clearly have some personal
issues with rice.  Many failed attempts will do that.

After appeasing the fickle gods of rice cooking, I grilled some
salmon, blanched some asparagus, then - just for the hell of it - I
cut up a french loaf and toasted the pieces on the grill.  We ate
dinner on the deck and admired the swarms of mayflies that had just
spawned and manifested in our backyard.  I didn't know about these
bugs, but they're a big thing up here.  They spawn twice in the
summer, and even though they look just like mosquitos, they don't
bite.  And when they spawn, they're still pretty week, so all you have
to do is spray some water on them and they die.  I guess it's one of
those silly little insects that has adapted for survival with quantity
over quality.

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed while Marissa folded his laundry.
We read some new Spider-Man children's books that arrived in the mail
that day.  Reading time turned into improv time as I started doing
voices and sound effects for the spider-man story.  You just can't
read for the Green Goblin unless you're going to be over the top.

After Rodney went to bed, I decided to re roll my bedroom computer
before starting on chores.  I was doing a very minimal 'terminal only'
thing for the past two weeks, but I decided I missed my desktop, and
especially my beloved pong screensaver.  Have I told you about my pong
screensaver?  It's a classic game of pong, only the score is matched
up to the hour and minute of a clock.  As a result, the paddle on the
right (team minute hand) ends up just destroying the paddle on the
left.

I think it's time to get going.  Hope you all have a wonderful day
today.  Happy Wednesday, friends.

*** 2019-08-29 Thursday home, eating, chores, and organization

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone, and happy Thursday to you all.  Yesterday, I
worked from home, which is something I haven't indulged in since about
a month ago.  During the summer internship program, I just went into
the office everyday to be more available for questions and help.  But
boy did I miss the remote Wednesdays.  It was a deeply relaxing and
productive day.  The thing about working from home is that you have
more control over what kind of interruptions you have.  People still
send you slack messages, but you can respond to them when you have
time or you're mentally ready for a break in the action.  Without the
commute, you also have the added benefit of just rolling out of bed
when it's time to work.  There's less spin up time.  But all things in
balance - it's undeniably easier to attend meetings and talk to people
in a real room.

Yesterday I plowed through a lot of solo work, and I also had time to
fix up some IT around the house.  Between work tasks, I set up a VPN
server on my router, which will allow me remotely access stuff on my
private network from, say, work.  Which is really helpful - sometimes
I take a note on my home computer and forget to save/push it, and
normally I'd just have to go all day without the information.  I'm
looking forward to quickly testing it out later today.

Picking up an old Wednesday afternoon tradition, my wife and I went to
Glass Nickel for lunch and a beer.  I must have gotten over-excited,
because I scarfed down my meal and a wave of little deep fried
appetizers too quickly.  It took a while for that to settle in my
stomach.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee to pick up things for stir fry,
which was selected on its merits of being yet another excuse to
practice rice.  I made a double batch this time, and it without the
butter it came out much better.  It's funny how most of my entry
yesterday was ranting about how much I hate making rice.  Yesterday I
really enjoyed it.  A double batch looked pretty impressive coming out
of the pan, and was exciting enough to make me forget about my "beef"
with boiled grains.

Rodney helped cut the vegetables.  Don't worry, he was using "Rodney's
knife", which is just a butter knife from the silverware drawer.  He
actually managed to cut a clove of garlic in half, so I was impressed.
Right before I threw the vegetables into a wok, I noticed there were
little bit marks in the zucchini.  Rodney had been grazing on cut
wedges and just putting them back in the bowl, which is just a huge
party foul, isn't it?

After dinner, I put Rod to bed and got to work chores and things.
Lately, to make the most use out of my time in the evening, I'll make
a checklist in my notes under a section called "Tonight", then hit the
tasks one at a time.  The ritual has even kind of turned into a mini
"sync up" with Marissa, as usually she'll join me to finish the list,
which can include questions, topics, ideas, or things I need to run by
her.

One of the chores I did yesterday was cleaning out the fridge, and
being about a week since the we brought back a haul from the farmer's
market, I had lots of organic, wilting produce to sort out, so it was
a pretty decision-heavy evening.  I have a trick with organizing the
fridge - you end up with a cleaner result if you try to /advertise/
each food item you're storing.  And by /advertise/, I guess I mean
move it to a place where it's easier to see and eat.  This could mean
turning labels forward, wiping residue off of a jar lid, cutting up
browning bananas and leaving the slices in Tupperware, and in general
just making sure everything is visible and appetizing.  What's funny
is that Marissa and Rodney aren't big into snacking, so I'm the one
that ends up raiding the fridge for these snacks.  Don't you see,
readers?  I'm really just doing all of this for me and my heavy
snacking lifestyle.

It's pretty gratifying to clean out expiring food.  I'm a huge fan of
expiration dates.  I stumbled onto a reddit thread that was mildly
shaming people who "live or die" by the little date stamped onto food
items.  The general consensus was that you should instead rely on
taste, look, and smell.  While I understand expiration dates aren't
perfect, and that you won't die if you consume something a day after
the expiration date, it really does make it easier to organize you're
food.  I don't have time to squeeze, sniff, taste and inspect
everything in my fridge.  The system doesn't need to be perfect - it
just needs to be good enough.

That's the thing about staying organized.  You have to be willing to
iterate on a system, and momentum is important.  If you wait around
for the perfect piece of software, the right day planner, or a
Saturday afternoon where you have time to clean and sort everything in
one long binge, you lose all the momentum.  Do a little bit every day,
and if something isn't working out, take note of it and improve it
later.

That's my time.  Hope you all have a wonderful Thursday.  I don't like
telling you what to do, but when was the last time you cleaned out
your fridge?

*** 2019-08-30 Friday firedrill, gravy, sleep, and handmaids

Dear Journal,

Good morning!  We've made it to Friday, everyone.  Yesterday was a
good day.  I got lots of work done, tried a new sandwich place for
lunch, and made a pretty good dinner.  We had a fire drill at work
yesterday.  I saw the upcoming announcement and decided to create a
little calendar event so everyone could plan around it.  Nate made me
laugh because just before the drill, he leaned in and asked with a
very serious face "In the event of a real fire, will you still put it
on my calendar."  Of course I agreed.  Fire or not, you got to keep
the calendar up to date.

It's been a "heads down" kind of week at work, and I think I needed
that.  It felt good to jump back into things, listen to music again,
clean up my notes, and take lots of quiet time.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee to pick up stuff to make
/saucijzenbroodjes/.  We've gotten pretty good at that meal now, so it
usually turns out pretty great.  And I say /we/ because Rod helped.
I'm impressed with how much he's picking up, in some aspects he's
genuinely helpful.  Yesterday he grabbed a basting brush out of the
drawer while my hands were still covered in raw beef.  When we cut
vegetables, we knows how to empty the bowl of off-cuts into the
garbage.  And he also did a pretty respectable job sprinkling the
/broodjes/ with sesame seeds.

I also learned yesterday that you can make gravy really quickly if you
need to.  I had just filled the dishwasher and we were waiting for
everything to come out of the oven, when I suddenly remembered that I
forgot to make the gravy.  I had even set aside a small amount of
leftover beef stock for this purpose.  So I sent Rod upstairs to get
mom while I melted the butter, threw in flour, and added the stock.
It was ready five minutes later, along with everything else, and
nobody was none the wiser.

After dinner, Marissa graciously offered to put Rod to bed, so I made
my way to the couch.  The long, productive week must have finally
caught up with me because I fell asleep watching YouTube videos.  It
felt good to not move, and not think about anything for an hour.

I "sobered up" from the nap with a hot cup of tea, and Marissa made
her way downstairs so we could watch a few episodes of Handmaid's
Tale.  Season 1 really turned a corner last night.  We had been
talking about how difficult the first leg of the season was to get
through.  It felt about as bleak as Game of Thrones, only with the
shock and horror cranked way up.  But last night's episodes we watched
started to get interesting, a little more hopeful, and some character
development is really happening now.  I figured it was only a matter
of time that things started to work out for Offred.  "Why else would
they invest so much in making us feel depressed for her.  If they
never gave her a win, that would be completely wasted investment,"
Marissa and I discussed.

It's a difficult show to get through.  The episodes are long, and
there's a lot of horrible themes.  But it's keeping us interested -
I'd say so far it's a solid /B/.

Today, Marissa, Rod, and I are going to grab lunch somewhere on the
square.  Maybe we'll try the sandwich place I went to yesterday, or
maybe we'll feel like sitting somewhere familiar and having a beer.
After work, we're going to make a pizza, then I'm going to try to
convince the family to sit outside by the fire and enjoy the cool
night.

Hope you all have a wonderful weekend.

*** 2019-08-31 Saturday cops, cars, breakfast, and ribs

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Saturday.  This morning, I'm coming to
you from our dining room computer.  Lion King is playing on the TV,
Marissa is napping on the couch, and Rodney is burning off all the
sugar he ate for breakfast.  It's possible I put just a little too
much sugar on his Dutch baby this morning.  But the sugar rush won't
last forever, I'm sure by the end of this entry, he'll be mellowed
out.

So last night was pretty action packed.  Marissa and I stayed up
pretty late to kick off the holiday weekend, and sometime around two
in the morning we heard a big crash outside.  Peering through the
window, we saw somebody had slammed their car into my neighbor's
truck, which was parked on the street in front of his house.  The guy
staggered out and looked pretty flustered.  He tried to start the car
a few times and dislodge it from the curb, but he ended up just taking
all his stuff out of the car and heading down the street on foot.
Marissa called the cops, who told us they were already looking for a
guy who was driving a stolen car that did a hit and run downtown
earlier that night.

Before he fled, I walked down my driveway to try to get a look at his
license plate.  To be honest with you, I was planning on confronting
him.  My neighbor has had people hit his car and leave before, and we
were pretty peeved it was happening again, and wanted to jump on the
opportunity to finally hold somebody responsible.  But from the corner
of my house, I could see that he was taking the license plate off
anyway, then I had second thoughts about getting in his face.
Usually, I regret not confronting people about this kind of thing, but
after hearing everything from the cops, I'm glad I hung back.  He
could have been dangerous.

So an eventful Friday night!  Marissa stayed up a little later to
scope things out, but went to bed not long after me.  We'll be
glancing at the police ticker all day to see if they ended up getting
him.

This morning, I channeled all the adrenaline into making breakfast.  I
made a pair of Dutch babies, and just for the hell of it, some french
toast.  After journaling, I'll probably take Rod to the market to pick
up stuff to make cornbread.  Afterwards, I'm smoking a slab of ribs.
I have a good feeling about this batch.  The slab is from the Jenny
Street market, and there's a lot of meat between the ribs that looks
dark and marbled.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Stay sharp out there, and
when in doubt, just make breakfast.

** 2019-09 September

*** 2019-09-01 Sunday groceries, biergarten, and ribs

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  It's about 8:53 AM, and in a few minutes I'll
wake everyone up for breakfast so we can start getting ready for
church.  I had an early start today.  I just got back from getting
groceries at Hy-Vee.  I really love the grocery store early in the
morning.  It's much easier to get to where you need to be, not to
mention the roads are pretty much empty, so it's a delightful drive.

It was nice to get some time this morning to straighten up the house
and put food away.  After church, the Flinkman family is stopping by.
We're taking them to the biergarten, which has been long awaited on
their summer TO-DO list.  Before we leave, we'll probably hang around
the house for a beer, and maybe even some leftovers.

I'm still licking my wounds from last night's dinner.  The ribs turned
out OK, but I kind of hit a turning point with ribs last night that
makes me never want to do them again.  Last night, I pretty much had
everything perfect.  The internal temp of the grill was pretty much
set at 230F for a full fives hours, but the temp never got above 170F
(you're supposed to wait until about 190F, so it was still quite a
ways off).  Finally, sometime around 8:00 PM I just decided to finish
them in the oven.  We didn't finally sit down to eat until about
8:30.  All things considered, the ribs turned out pretty good.  I
think the reason they didn't get up to the expected temp was because
they were much less fatty (remember I was praising them for the
marbled, dark colored meat?).  But it kills me watching my family wait
until 8:30 to eat dinner - my personal cut off point is 7 PM.  Not to
mention I wasted an entire day.  I don't know - after knowing what
kind of other meals you can make with five hours on a Saturday, it's
hard to justify it to myself.

So I'm taking a break from ribs.  After Rod went to bed, Marissa and I
sat outside by the fire.  Smoking ribs leaves kind of a sticky residue
on the grill, and I have to burn it all off anyway before putting the
grill away.  It was nice to just sit, talk, and listen to music on the
porch.

Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday, and a wonderful labor day
weekend.

*** 2019-09-02 Monday toddlers, oversharing, cleaning, and code

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends!  Happy labor day.  Hope you're taking it easy
this morning.  Our family is having a slow start - we just finished
eating some breakfast out on the porch, and now Marissa and Rodney are
watching Spider-Man on the couch while I knock out a journal entry.

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  Kelly and Jeremy spent the afternoon
with us.  They got to our place around lunch time.  We heated up some
leftovers and let the kids burn some energy in the backyard.
Afterwards, we walked to the biergarten.  We had such a wonderful
time.  It felt good to catch up and chat about anything that popped
into my head.  We also had some great toddler synergy happening.  I
think when you have at least two toddlers in the same room, you have a
golden opportunity to play their bombastic energy off of each other
and tire them out for later.  Rod was so tired last night that he
almost fell asleep while I was reading.

It was also pretty great to "nerd out" about raising toddlers.  Having
a young kid, I sometimes get a little self-conscious that I talk about
my kid too frequently.  I'm not an egregious offender, but there's
enough young parents floating around society that give us a bad rap.
You know the type - the kind that tie everything back to the kid
they're raising.  The kind that will never let you forget about their
kid, no matter how tangential or wildly unrelated it was to what you
were already talking about before they started showing you pictures of
them in the bath.

All that to say is that the stigma is real, and even parents with
enough self awareness to know that the eyes of the world are not
actually watching them raise their child still worry about
over-sharing.  "Do I talk about my kid to much?" is a question that
crosses my mind every time I show someone a picture or tell a funny
Rodney story.  But all bets are off when you're with another family
like Kelly and Jeremy.  They're in the trenches with us, and it felt
good to trade war stories about tantrums, sticky fingers, and public
urination, unhindered by the nagging little thought /"do I talk about
my kid too much?"/

This morning, we're taking it slow because we're planning on getting a
lot of stuff done.  First, we'll probably go to home depot.  Marissa
needs some art stuff, and I was going to peruse the grilling
department to see if they carry anything that can clean a poor Weber
grill that is caked with a few summers of soot and neglect.  To be
honest, I've never cleaned my grill before.  Marissa surprised me once
and managed to clean half of it, and that was the best it ever looked
(besides when it was coming out of the box).  But I knew I had to
clean it at least once this summer, which is why I committed to
loading it into the car and driving it to the class reunion this
weekend.  I knowingly cornered myself into cleaning it.

After cleaning the grill, Rodney and I are going to make some
/peposa/.  It's a great recipe for long days at home, because after
you load everything into the crock pot, you have no choice but hang
out in the kitchen and straighten things up for a few hours.  Once I'm
happy with the kitchen, I was going to use the rest of the time before
dinner to work on some code.  Marissa and I had an idea for making a
family "hub".  As I'm currently picturing it, it's just going to be a
website with a bunch of shared apps and tools.  Right now I'm working
on a home chores module - something that will keep track of who is
supposed to do what and how often.  I'm even thinking about wiring in
some friendly slackbot action so each morning you're reminded of what
you're supposed to get done.  I find the chores module particularly
exciting, because for the longest time I've been keeping it all in my
personal notes.

After dinner, we'll ride out the weekend scaries together.  Marissa
and I have some more TV to watch, but I'm thinking about making
another batch of /palmiers/ to bring into work.  I tried them last
night, and they turned out really well.  It's a puff pastry & sugar
biscuit folded in such a way that when baked, it puffs up into a
little heart.

Hope you all enjoy what's left of your holiday weekend.  Take it easy,
grab a loved one, and drink a beer with them outside.  The rest of
your week depends on it.

*** 2019-09-03 Tuesday palmiers, tv, coffee, and planning

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I think we definitely made the most
of the long weekend.  We ate breakfast on the back porch, ran some
errands, and worked outside.  I finally got around to cleaning the
grill.  After putting Rod to bed, I decided to try baking another
batch of palmiers.  I was very meticulous this time about rolling the
puff pastry thinly onto parchment paper and thoroughly covering them
with sugar.  But when it came time to form the hearts, it became very
clear that the dimensions were way off.  The cookies are supposed to
bake with these gentle folded-over layers (about three of them).  But
I started with a piece of pastry that was way too big, which made a
cookie that had several very small folds, and by the time they were
done they looked like little baskets of worms, or a diagram of small
intestines.

Puff pastry can be so cruel.  I'm slowly learning that things that
look pretty going into the oven don't always look pretty coming out
after they're baked.  I guess beginner's luck was at play here - since
my first try at these cookies turned out great, I thought I was
invincible - before I pulled the twisted mayhem out of the oven last
night.

As a joke, I took all the terrible burnt off cuts and put them in nice
pastry dish underneath a towel; then I asked Marissa to take a picture
of them for Instagram.  I got a good, cheap laugh out of her when she
removed the towel with her camera ready.  I was planning on saving
face and acting like I was proud of them, but I broke character and we
had a good laugh.

Once I was done burning sugar in the kitchen, we made our way to the
living room to watch some TV.  As of last night, we're marching on
with /Handmaid's Tale/.  After finishing three episodes, just before
heading up to bed Marissa broke the morose silence and asked, "Can we
stop watching this?"  "Yeah I'm so sick of this show," I laughed.
There's nothing like the instant relief of deciding not to watch a
show any more.  How liberating!  So probably as of tonight, we're
going back to re-watching New Girl.  Sorry, /Handmaid's Tale/.  You
had your moments, but you just weren't good enough for how sad you
are.  And I'm tired of having weird dreams about kidnapping and
fascism.  I think it's also making me stress eat.  To cope with last
night's episode binge, I stress ate almost the whole bowl of joke
palmiers I set aside.  And this morning it feels like a group of
radical fundamentalists established a fascist theocracy inside my
stomach.

It feels good to drink coffee.  Marissa and I finally bought a blade
grinder, and now we're enjoying the freshly ground stuff.  We were
saving up for a nice burr grinder, and at some point we must have just
given up on it and continued to buy pre-ground beans.  Then one day
the thought crossed my head that we could probably get a really good
blade grinder for a fraction of the money we'd spend on an average
burr grinder.  So we pulled the trigger, and now there's no looking
back.  It's a wonderful little blade grinder.  It supports different
settings, but what really takes the cake is that it that you don't
have to sit there and hold the button - it will finish the grind for
you.  And it doesn't look like an eye soar either.  It's small and
sleek, like a little robot in the corner.

This week will be all about planning the high school reunion, which is
happening this Saturday.  It's weird planning it all through email -
it's hard to tell if I'm not doing enough or doing too much.  So I'm
just trying to make sure we have the basics - a place, a time, some
people, and food.  Oh, and beer.  That probably completes the "stand
around awkwardly" survival kit.  But that's a worst case scenario, I
think it's going to go great and we're going to have a wonderful time.

That's my time.  I hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday.  As a
closing thought, if you too are stuck watching a TV show that's just
not quite good enough to warrant feeling sad all the time, don't be
afraid to break things off.  Just unapologetically say "I don't want
to watch this!" And then watch New Girl instead.

*** 2019-09-04 Wednesday cookies, training, and discipline

Dear Journal,

It's a cloudy, chilly, misty morning, and even though I'm still
waiting for coffee to finish brewing, the smell of fall that hit me
when I stepped outside to let the dogs out was enough to wake me up.
Of course, now I'm back in side and I'd rather have coffee, but for a
second it was pretty magical.  The weather says it's supposed to be on
the cooler side all day - it shouldn't get above 70 today, which makes
me really eager to take a family walk to Glass Nickel for lunch.  The
cozy work-from-home vibes are in full effect this morning.

Yesterday was a pretty solid day.  It felt good to put on a real
outfit (something other than my weekend [[https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/39c928c1-b001-44db-8481-d4e78fbc1015#HkMx93d76SS.copy][lazy pants]]) and head into the
office.  I was kind of bummed that my cookies didn't turn out.  The
batch was perfectly edible (we've been snacking on them at home), but
they were just an impractical, grotesque form factor and I didn't
think they earned the right to make a debut at the office.  I
mentioned them before our morning meeting, and my coworker Heath joked
"Nope, sorry - you only get credit for making us cookies when you
bring the cookies."  Which is undeniably true - there's no sense
talking about cookies that didn't happen.  That's just some Midwest
candor setting me straight.  Throughout the day, I was visualizing the
thin sheet of rolled out puff pastry, and I think I came up with a way
to fix my cookies.  I'll try tonight and report back.

So what else is going on?  Ah, we're training a new member of our team
this week.  Two of our summer interns accepted jobs and one of them
was back on our team the following Monday.  It's exciting having fresh
perspective around, but bringing someone up to speed can be daunting.
At this point, I've been with my work for a little over three years,
and even in that brief amount of time things have changed so much.
There's a lot of information.  And if that information were a body of
water, training new people feels like teaching somebody surf.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee, and Marissa wanted to come along.
We were surprised to see that Rod kind of had a bad attitude about the
change in routine.  "Momma go painting," he scolded as he pointed
upstairs.  After some undisclosed disciplinary action, he caved, and
we all jumped in the car.  We decided not to play any music to give
him space to think through things.  The whole thing was just a
sobering reminder that my kid is turning into a real person with his
own agenda.  He has his own sense of what's normal, and he wants to
weigh in on what we do - and not in the cute way where he just blurts
out things like "WATERSLIDE" and "BASEBALL" at inappropriate times,
but in a meaningful way - where we may feel like doing something but
still have a hard time communicating it.

Today should be a good day.  I'm going to drink coffee and rock my
lazy pants and drink coffee until my morning meeting, then the new
hire and I are going to do some more "surfing lessons".  Marissa, Rod,
and I are going to walk to Glass Nickel for during lunch time, and you
can be sure that I'm making another batch of cookies tonight.  But as
we know, I don't get credit for them until people are eating them -
don't let me off easy.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-09-05 Thursday mixtapes, steak, and baking

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Yesterday was a very busy day.  After work I
took Rod to Hy-Vee to pick up some sides.  I had a chuck roast that
had been dry aging in the fridge since Sunday, and I wanted to pick up
some sides.  Rod brought along his giant giraffe to Hy-Vee too, but
even with the extra member in our party we were in-and-out pretty
quickly.  Rod and I have a pretty good Hy-Vee system at this point,
and very few things can throw it off.

Speaking of getting thrown off, just as I was loading the groceries
into the car, some dudes pulled up next to us and handing me a
mixtape.  I gave the guy three bucks - partly because I like to
support local artists, but also because he said I looked groovy and I
was very flattered.  Rod, Giraffe, and I listened to the mixtape on
the way home.  We only made it about ten minutes, but I think that's
all we needed.  And even if we had liked the mixtape, I don't know how
I would have tracked down the band because it doesn't have anything
written on it.  So I suppose I would have to comb through the tracks
and just listen to the "shoutouts" or whatever.  Let that be a lesson,
I guess.  If you're at the stage in your rap career where you need to
boost concert attendance by handing out mixtapes in the Hy-Vee parking
lot, then you're probably also at the point in your rap career where
you need to write your name on them.

After we got home, Rod helped me cut up a shallot, but then lost
interest and decided to go watch TV.  I really couldn't blame him, I
didn't have any idea what I was doing with the giant piece of meat in
the fridge, and he must have felt the vibes.  Even though it was
really meant to be braised or cooked like a pot roast, I didn't have
time to do any of that, so I opted to just cook it like a giant steak
with a reverse sear.  The three pound chuck roast took about 45
minutes to get up to medium, and afterwards I seared the hell out of
it on cast iron and basted it in butter.  I still had some rosemary
and garlic around, so I put them to work.  I let the steak rest while
I threw together some peas and carrots.  I thought I was in the clear
and had pulled it off, until I cut into the steak.  The good news was
that it was cooked perfectly - cooking a steak right is just a matter
of reading a thermometer correctly.  But the meat was chewy, and there
was an abundance of unappetizing fluid on the plate.  So the moral of
the story is that while you can cook a chuck roast as if it were a
giant steak, it won't taste like one.  It was still perfectly edible,
and my hungry family graciously just filled up on end pieces, bread,
and sides, but just something to remember for later.  While cleaning
up, I joked with Marissa that after proving I can turn an
inappropriate piece of meat into a barely passable steak, cooking a
real steak next time should feel pretty easy.  Kind of like how
baseball players practice with weights at the end of their bad - so
when the weight comes off and they step up to the plate, the bat feels
lighter.  In the same vain, I should see if I can reverse sear a shoe.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa painted and I kept the cooking party
rolling into the evening, making more batches of palmiers in between
Wednesday chores.  The first batch of palmiers turned out terrible -
the hearts unfolded into what looked like angry crab pincers, and they
burned, but I found a good system and the batches started to
normalize.  Soon I had the hearts in-tact, golden brown, ready to be
paraded around the office.

Baking is difficult.  It almost feels like a sport.  I'm pretty
exhausted, and tonight I think I'm going to suggest we eat at
Portillo's to give our kitchen a break.

Marissa and I finished the night by sitting on the couch together and
watching New Girl.  We're both still reeling from our decision to stop
watching /Handmaid's Tale/.  I read somewhere yesterday that attention
is our only currency, and we should spend it wisely.  Something to
keep in mind as the "binge-able TV mini series" becomes more
fashionable.

That's my time.  Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-09-06 Friday bears

Dear Journal,

Yesterday at work, I noticed that almost everyone was Greenbay Packers
jerseys.  It felt like a coincidence at first, but then I walked by
someone who was /completely/ decked out - cheese hat, face paint, and
all.  This led me to bring it up in our morning stand-up.  "What did
the Packers do?" I asked.  "It's the first game of the season
tonight," someone replied.  "They're playing the Bears."  The team
exchanged knowing smirks.

I had a pretty regular day at work.  Lots of writing code and time
spent in my headphones, which gave me time to think.  I thought about
the Bears.  I've never been to a Bears game, but I've worn Bears
Pajamas & t shirts, and I used to watch the games on TV with my dad.
I remember going to a super bowl party with church fiends, where we
ate nachos and chicken wings and watch Rex Grossman throw something
like a dozen interceptions for the world to see, and all my friends
and family yelling at the TV.

I thought about sports.  Deep down, I've always feared that I jinx
sports teams.  I followed the Chicago Blackhawks very closely in sixth
grade.  I watched just about every game on TV, and I even got
permission from my teacher to write last night's score on the
chalk board every morning.  It was a really [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2002%E2%80%9303_Chicago_Blackhawks_season#Regular_season][terrible season]].  They
didn't make the playoffs, and immediately after the NHL shut down for
almost a whole season due to salary disputes.  I've always wondered if
I jinxed the season by watching.

After getting home, Marissa, Rod, and I jumped in the car to run some
errands.  Marissa and I talked about the game.  She noticed all the
Packers gear out in the wild too, and independently found out there
was a big game tonight.  Occasionally, we have the "which sports
teams does are family support" discussion, and it was especially
relevant then.  "I could probably support the Packers," Marissa
added.  "My family would give me crap because they're all Vikings
fans, but we live here now, and we should be proud Wisconsinites."

I winced.  "I don't think I could bring myself to wear anything with a
Packers logo.  Do you think you could actually put on a Greenbay
Packers shirt?"  Marissa shrugged.  "Yeah, I don't see why not.  I
think the Jerseys are cool.  What's your issue with it?"  That was a
good question, and I didn't have a good answer.  At the time of
writing this, I don't think I have a single Bears logo in the house.
But apparently I'm still enough of a Bears fan to instinctively hate
the Packers.  "I don't know," I replied.  "It must be just
psychological at this point.  I'm getting a little anxious just
picturing myself as a Packers fan, and I feel guilty just imagining
it."

Marissa smirked, "I guess we're Bears fans.  We should watch the game
tonight and support them."  I admired her bravery.  She was convinced
that she could follow any sports team she wanted, and from what I know
about Minnesota, defecting to the Bears is equally as treacherous as
defecting to the Packers.

When we got home, I put the game on the TV.  Rodney instinctively sat
on the couch on my lap with his milk and settled in.  Having sports in
the house constitutes a special occasion and is worthy of extending
bedtime, so I decided to sacrifice story time and let him stay up to
watch a few more drives.  He watched the Packers take the lead and
score a touch down.  To give him the full football experience, I even
yelled at the TV.  "AH C'MON!  Dang it."  He happily joined me in my
feigned enthusiasm.  Even though I don't follow sports too closely,
I've always enjoyed making little comments to myself between plays and
trying to sound savvy, and Rodney was enjoying it.  The second quarter
ended with the Bears still trailing.  I muted the TV and ushered
Rodney up to bed.  He took a final sip of milk, then quietly said to
himself "Go Bears."  We trudged up the stairs for bedtime.

The Bears lost last night.  Maybe I jinxed them by watching the game,
just like I did to the Blackhawks in sixth grade.  But apathy and
superstition doesn't excuse me from the fight.  From what I've
observed all my life, being a Bears fan is fraught with heartbreak and
disappointments.  But my family has chosen this path, and we walk
together.  Fellow Bears fans, I'll see you Sunday at 3:25PM.

Go Bears.

*** 2019-09-07 Saturday coffee, reunion, ramen, and pastries

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  I got an early start today.  It's the day of
our high school reunion, and before we drive down to Arlington
Heights, I'm making breakfast, then pre-cooking two dozen brats.
Aside from the food, the car is pretty much all packed.

This morning, I had to bust out the old french press to make coffee.
Our trusty Hamilton Beach carafe emerged from the dishwasher with a
crack in it.  Don't worry, everyone.  Starbucks trained me for
emergencies like these.  One liter of hot water, 56 grams of coarsely
ground beans, four and a half minutes, then gently plunge and
immediately remove the coffee.  I used to make coffee like this every
morning in college, and it worked well, but the second you need to
support one other person's morning coffee habits, suddenly the once
charming, tiny two cup form factor of the french press loses its
appeal.

Last night I looked on amazon for a replacement carafe.  The machine
still worked great, in fact I just ran cleaning solution through it
the other day.  But I couldn't find a replacement for the cracked
carafe, and as silly as it sounds I just bought a whole new machine
for twenty dollars.  Just replace the whole damn thing - that's how we
Americans fix things I suppose.

So what else is going on... today is pretty much all about the high
school reunion.  It's the culmination of a few months of part time
planning.  I'm a little nervous - not because I'm seeing people from
high school, but mostly because Lexi and I planned it all over email
and that's a tricky way to plan a party.  I think all things
considered, we did a good job, and if we missed anything, we'll just
have to improvise.

The whole thing was very reminiscent of planning events in high school
student council.  It's funny how those feelings come rushing back,
only this time instead of handwritten posters and morning
announcements, it's email, facebook, and google sheets.

Last night, to prevent myself from driving Marissa crazy with party
planning nerves, I baked another batch of palmiers.  I'm proud to say
that we're well past asking "did they turn out?"  Now, it's all about
systematizing the recipe, fine tuning the hardware choices, making
more cookies with less of a mess.  I figured out that if you use a
pair of chopsticks, you can turn the cookies on the pan more quickly.
I also switched to parchment paper so I wouldn't need to re use the
same silpat (which after three batches would accumulate burnt sugar,
but no such problem with disposable parchment paper).  Lastly, I
discovered that if you give the raw cookies a firm squeeze before
setting them on a tray, the hearts form better.

On the work front, Friday was a pretty good day.  Josh, Fong, Jane and
I went out to lunch at Morris Ramen.  As it was chilly and cloudy all
day, we were proud of our choice to eat hot soup, it was a nice boost
of calm energy in the middle of the day.  Afterwards, my team met to
discuss goals for the upcoming months.  We always have interesting
discussions when we undertake sorting long term priorities.  You gain
a lot of insight just listening to people's take on things.

After work, Rod and I made a pizza.  We ate it outside on the back
porch.  The nights are cool, and I think just about all the nasty
summer bugs are gone for the winter.

I had better get going with these brats.  Hope you all have a
wonderful day, and to the class of 2009, I'll see all you fine people
at the reunion.

*** 2019-09-08 Sunday reunion

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  It's a beautiful, chilly Sunday morning.  We
had a pretty crazy day yesterday driving to Chicago for my high school
reunion, and after asking so much of Marissa and Rodney, I thought it
was only fair to use a church skip.  We all slept in, and I baked two
Dutch babies.  For those keeping score, I made two variations today.
The first had some cinnamon in the batter, and the second was made
with buttermilk.  Both variations were good, but not good enough to
supplant our standard recipe.  Warm whole milk, three room temperature
eggs, salt, vanilla, flour, and clarified butter.

As I mentioned, yesterday was the high school reunion.  We got to CLA
some time around 1:30 PM.  There was lots of stuff going on, as the
school rents space to various groups in the summer.  We let ourselves
in and started setting up the tent, chairs, and grill out back by the
field.  It was such a strange feeling being back in that building.  I
was surprised by how little had changed in the last ten years (caveat:
it was probably more like 8 years since I had been back, I was there
briefly for Sarah's graduation, oh and Sarah there's still a giant
stock photo style picture of you hung up in the cafeteria).

Around three, people started to trickle in.  With Lexi's help, we set
up some decorations, got some music playing, and before we knew it
people were comfortably mingling outside.  I'm not going to lie to
you - I was expecting a lot of awkwardness talking to people I haven't
seen in so long, but I was surprised at how natural it felt.  Once you
realize that everyone feels as awkward as you, the weirdness melts
away, and you're free to have a good time and reconnect with people.
Beer and wine helps too.  We spent most of the reunion just hanging
out outside under the tent, flipping through yearbooks, and grazing on
potluck food.

Toward the end, we decided to take a tour through the school.
Mr. Bennett followed us around, unlocking pretty much any room we
wanted to see.  We had a good time trading stories.  It was amusing
hearing different people's perspectives on the big "scandals" that
happened during senior year - suspensions, fights, pranks gone awry.
All things that were so gravely serious at the time, now ten years
later with all the wounds healed, reduced to just a great party story.

I really enjoyed seeing my seventh grade classroom again.  Mr. Bennett
told us that we were the last class to use the space before they
converted it into a storage.  I'm not surprised, the temperature
situation was pretty wild down there.  The classrooms were each
equipped with a giant heater, and the temperature in the classroom
would wildly swing from the low sixties to the high seventies whenever
it kicked on - but given how cold some of our winters were, sometimes
you wanted that.  We used to gather around the heater in
Mr. Lindstrom's room and enjoy the blast of hot hair, like it was a
luxurious Roman bathhouse.

Seventh grade was probably my favorite year.  Walking around in that
classroom yesterday, I felt like I was an intruder in somebody's
basement.  But it used to feel like the safest place in the world.

After relishing a few final moments in the building, Mr. Bennett
locked up and we started to pack the car.  I'd spend the rest of the
drive home to Madison reflecting on high school.  I was feeling a lot
of confusing sensations of regret and embarrassment, like I owed
somebody an apology, but I didn't remember what I did, nor to whom it
was owed.  My conversation with Mr. Bennett lingered in my thoughts.
I joked "I feel like such a different person compared to who I was
then, I almost feel like it's unfair to hold me responsible for the
things I said in high school."  He laughed and added, "I tell students
all the time, what you say to people matters.  You're all only in high
school, but people remember everything."

My relationships with teachers, friends, and classmates in high school
seemed so much more complicated back then.  I remember being
overwhelmed at how difficult it was to navigate the social network at
school: figuring out how to get your work done, plan events, keep in
touch with friends, make sure teachers felt respected, all the while
balancing teenage emotions.  I was so self-conscious of violating the
unspoken social rules of high school, but looking back, I can't shake
the feeling that I was over-complicating things.  My social life at
school wasn't the tenuous thread I made it out to be.  All that time,
the people around me at school were caring for me, forgiving me,
trusting my better intentions, and giving me room to develop and
figure out my personality.  On the car ride home, feelings of regret
and embarrassment morphed into feelings of gratitude.

Watching us all stand around and drink beer in a field, suddenly high
school ten years ago felt like a play, and we were actors relaxing
during the intermission.  Our angsty, self-centered high school
personalities were set aside, and we all felt so similar.  I wish I
could have done high school all over again with that knowledge.  If I
knew about this bond we shared, perhaps I would have been more
forgiving, more empathetic, and more patient with my peers.

Going back to what Mr. Bennett said to me, "what you say to people
matters, even in high school."  It's a humbling thought knowing that
your words and actions get woven into someone's memories, even if they
didn't make it into your own.  You can't control everything.  You
can't dictate what people remember about you and how your actions
affect everyone.  I think that's why high school felt so complicated
to me at the time.  Really, all you have to do is have good
intentions.  If you care about someone and assume the best in them,
they learn to assume the best in you, and you can sweat the small
stuff.

I love the class of 2009.  There's not a lot of people that share my
unique CLA experience, so I'm going to try to keep them close.  Thanks
for being part of my story.  It was wonderful to see some of you
again, and for the next reunion, I hope more of you can make it.

To everyone else, hope you have a wonderful Sunday afternoon.  I'm
going to walk to the grocery store with Rodney, today feels like a
great day to make pea soup.

*** 2019-09-09 Monday soup, anger, podcasts, and quiet

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  It's so dark in the mornings now.  With all
the rain clouds still hiding the morning sun, it feels like I woke up
in the middle of the night, and it's making me want to crawl back into
bed for a few more hours, even after finishing this coffee.  But
little does my body know that it's actually 7 AM on Monday morning,
and it's time to roll.

Last night, I tried to make pea soup.  It was also cold and drizzly
yesterday, and I pictured us sitting on the back porch under the
umbrella - maybe under a few blankets - eating hot pea soup.  But that
never happened, I sort of botched the recipe.  For some reason, the
peas cooked, but they never dissolved into a puree, even after boiling
the hell out of them for the last half hour.  I finally declared the
recipe edible by 8 PM, but by then I had already lost my temper and we
didn't feel like eating outside.

I lost my temper.  Still trying to figure that out.  I stopped keeping
an anger journal a few months ago because I was pretty satisfied with
the revelation that I lack patience, and that leads to outburts, but I
decided that just knowing the problem is isn't enough to fix it.  I
need to practice.  So I created an "Anger" section in my notes and
kicked things off with the great Sunday night pea soup meltdown.

After dinner, I hung out with Marissa in the dining room while she put
the finishing touches on some pieces.  Today she's sending a bunch of
her paintings to be put on display at a restaurant in Rochester.  Our
dining room looks like a very compact art gallery - all the finished
pieces propped up on display.

I tried working on some code.  I wanted to play around with setting up
a server in google cloud, but google cloud was being stupid, and after
getting all wound up over dinner I knew I wouldn't have the patience
to deal with it, so I shut the laptop and just decided to binge some
cooking videos on YouTube.  And I'm glad I did - I picked up a lot of
good tips and recipes I'd like to try, including a bacon & asparagus
dutch baby.  Oh yeah, you heard me right.  This is a dangerous for our
family.  Once we make a /savory/ dutch baby, that opens a door into a
universe where we eat several dutch babies per day.  In the morning
we'll eat a classic breakfast dutch baby, then for lunch maybe a pizza
calzone version, and then for dinner, maybe a rustic french style
hunter's trilogy dutch baby.  Of course we'd make another dutch baby
just before bed as a snack.  Of course I kid.  Tonight we're going to
try out this asparagus bacon version.  It doesn't get coated in
powdered sugar, so it plates up more like a puffy quiche, and that's
not a very controversial choice for dinner, is it?

/Sip./ We're going on four days without a coffee maker.  We're
scraping by with the french press, but I've forgotten how cold and
gritty it gets toward the bottom.  Additionally, prepping a french
press before going to bed is much less satisfying then prepping a
coffee maker.

So what else is going on.  Ah, I'm on ticket duty this week.  I'm
mentally revving up to be very attentive and proactive with helping
people today.  Which is good, I have some podcasts to catch up on, and
that makes the day go by pretty quickly.  I haven't checked in on my
regular podcasts in a while, but I ran out of music to listen to and
feel like changing things up.  Last night while doing the dishes I
listened to Uhh Yeah Dude.  I like the podcasts that are loyal to a
certain format, because when you pick them up again it feels like you
never left.

Man, this morning I feel like I'm really squeezing my brain to get the
words out.  I guess I'm having kind of a mentally quiet morning.  And
that's OK, there's a time and a place for every way you feel.  Maybe
you're having a quiet morning too, and this morning you don't feel
like bursting through the doors at work with a big smile on your face
like you're running for office or something.  Maybe it's the kind of
morning where you'll just grab a cup of coffee, get under a pair of
headphones, and get to work until lunch.

No matter how you feel this morning, I hope you have a good day.  If
you're with me and you're feeling quiet, let's use the time to
mentally charge up and reflect.  Hope you all have a wonderful Monday
morning.

*** 2019-09-10 Tuesday coffee, football, code, and tacos

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  It's yet another cozy, drizzly day here in
beautiful Madison Wisconsin.  This morning's coffee turned out a
little better.  I thought I had ground the beans a little too finely,
but I like the extra kick this morning.  Still eagerly waiting for the
new coffee machine to get here in the mail, this french press requires
way too many decisions in the morning.  At this point, I'm kicking
myself for not just buying it at target.  I'm not sure why ordering it
on Amazon felt convenient or more timely.  Amazon is great for things
that you eventually need - like socks, shoes, and surge protectors.
But I should have anticipated how annoying waiting around for a coffee
maker would be.  /I really of think [I] [[https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/163ecd4b-0182-4c79-b3b8-9e4f810ca139#BJYeObfSLr.copy][screwed the pooch]] on this
one./

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  Work was pretty busy, but I made it
through my checklist and even had time over lunch for some side
missions.  Lately I do this thing where alongside my work todo list, I
make a list of personal things I'd like to get done over my lunch.
Yesterday I emailed a friend, then as silly as it sounds I read up on
the Bears' Quarterback Mitch Trubisky.  I'm really trying to take
football seriously, so each day I'm going to try to bring myself up to
speed with something, and with football the QB is probably the best
place to start.  I didn't realize that Mitch Trubisky was such a new
part of the team.  We only drafted him in 2017, but according to
Wikipedia he really started clicking in last season.  The bears made
it pretty far into the playoffs, then were eliminated with a
heart-breaking missed field goal.  I definitely remember that.
Marissa and I watched the entire game.  We thought the Bears were on
their way to the super bowl, so we wanted to jump on the fair weather
fan train earlier in the playoffs to make the final more exciting.  As
a result, we witnessed every painful moment of that last field goal
attempt.  During that game, I guess I was too preoccupied with the
kick to notice how well Mitch played.  He's a solid QB, and I'm happy
to have him on our side.  I'm looking forward to the game this Sunday.
It's right in the middle of Rodney's naptime, and football games are a
great excuse to hang around the house and cook something a little on
the junkfood side.  I'm thinking about making some nachos or buffalo
wings for the occasion.  Today, during my lunch I'm going to read up
on our head coach Matt Nagy.  I'll peruse his Wikipedia page, then
pull on a few internet threads from there.

After work yesterday, I made that asparagus & bacon dutch baby with a
side of mushrooms.  It was a pretty easy recipe, so Marissa hung out
in the kitchen while I worked.  It was nice to catch up after a long
work day.  She had a pretty busy day schlepping paintings up to
Minnesota.

The dinner turned out great.  It was kind of like a cross between a
quiche and a country omelette, but you can't go wrong with crusty
cheese, egg, and bacon in cast iron, so that's no surprise.

We put Rodney to bed, then Marissa and I began our quiet hobby night.
She painted, and I worked the whole night on /the hub/.  I was hoping
to finish up the chores tracker, but I decided to rewrite the whole
site from scratch and I just about broke even.  It was for the better
though, I was over-complicating things and I'm much happier with it
now.  I'd rather not bore you with the details.

So looking forward, I think we just have a regular Tuesday on our
hands.  I don't have any leftovers today, so I might indulge in some
tacos.  Belair has a great $2 beer & taco special on Tuesday, so you
can get a pretty solid lunch and beer for only a couple bucks.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Eat tacos and get your
work done.

*** 2019-09-11 Wednesday coffee, ideas, and music

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  And happy Wednesday.  I'm pleased to report
that the coffee situation here at home has returned to normal.  We
un-boxed our fancy Hamilton Beach coffee maker last night.  As I was
opening it up, I started to question why I went with the exact same
$20 model as before - if you're getting something on Amazon you may as
well shop around, read the reviews, and see what's out there, right?
Apparently I don't.  I think I even searched for the exact machine by
make and model.  But maybe that's a good thing.  There's a notch cut
out at the end of our coffee bar that fits one of these exactly, and
what a scandal it would be if I got a different machine that didn't
fit there!  But I played it safe, I got the same model, it fits snugly
in the notch, the french press can go back to being a contemporary
hipster decoration and I can go back to just complaining about the
beans. This week I went against my better judgment and picked up some
random "fair trade" coffee from the Jenny Street market.  I'm all for
fair trade, but I'm suspicious of any coffee in which that is the
/only/ thing they have to brag about.  Really?  You're putting /that/
front and center on the bag?  No "premium quality" or "established in
1985"?  Not even one of those "J.D. Power & Associates awards"?

This fair trade coffee was not even sold by the actual coffee.  I
bought it by the keurigs and hot chocolate and other tangentially
cafe-related nonsense.  In the back of the grocery store by the
checkout, there's a wall of real coffee beans, a bean grinder, and a
lot of blends that I recognize from local coffee shops, but I'm just a
bit too shy to figure out how it works.  It looks like a big todo,
asking the cashier to grind it for you, telling them which blend you
want and how much.  I'm just waiting until I hit my personal tipping
point, where my discomfort outweighs my shyness - my /activation
energy/, if you want.

So I'm all out of journaling ideas.  We're scraping the bottom of the
barrel, if you hadn't noticed.  To add some content to these morning
journaling sessions, I jot down things I can talk about as they pop in
my head at work or while doing chores, and the list is almost empty.
/Almost/.  I've been sitting on one bullet point for about a month now
and I just haven't worked it into our conversation, so instead of
doing this organically I'm just going to drop it in.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Some days, I feel like if somebody put a gun to my head, I /might/
admit that the only album I ever really need to survive is Beyonce's
Homecoming Live album.
#+END_QUOTE

I took this down while I was doing the dishes, when I blast the more
energetic selections in my music library.  Beyonce's [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homecoming:_The_Live_Album][Homecoming: Live]]
album is a frequent guest in the rotation.  There's some dull spots,
but the first leg is really energetic and gets me really pumped up to
clean the kitchen.  Sometimes I ask myself which album I'd take on a
desert island with me, and on any day of the week I'd answer /Blonde/
by Frank Ocean - with a secret copy of /Endless/ burned on the
opposite side of the CD, but this random thought in my notes proves
that for a few seconds when the sink water gets hot and the Queen B
starts bumping that I briefly live in a universe where Beyonce is all
I need.  But I would only admit this in dire circumstances.  In the
words of a good friend of mine, Frank Ocean is my music collection's
youngest child.  Frank is the baby of the family, and no matter what
he does (or in his case, how infrequently he makes music), he'll
always be my favorite.  Beyonce might be my middle child.  I don't
have a lot in common with her, but I need her around for balance.
Kanye is my wayward eldest son.  He embarrasses me a lot, and I don't
want to talk about what he's up to and what he's saying, but at the
end of the day I love his music and he'll always have a place in my
collection.

So there we go.  That wasn't so hard, was it?  It's equally daunting
and inspiring staring at an empty "ideas" section in my notes now that
I just let the last one fly.  I'll try to be extra attentive to my
thoughts today so we can repopulate it.  Otherwise I'll just end up
using our time together in the mornings to talk about all the
intricacies of my morning coffee routine.

I'm working from home today.  Marissa's dog class was cancelled, so
the whole family is hanging around the house with me.  We're thinking
about eating lunch at home, then going for a quick walk in the middle
of the day.  Normally we eat out on Wednesday afternoon, but we've got
some good leftovers in the fridge, and we had better eat those before
I add to the chaos tonight.  For dinner, we're going to attempt Korean
BBQ beef, some white rice, and if I'm feeling really crazy I'm going
to make some rangoons to go along with them.  I can feel my fingers
swelling from the sodium already.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading, and
I'll see you tomorrow.  Happy Wednesday!

*** 2019-09-12 Thursday oversleeping, blogging, and journaling

Dear Journal,

Dang it.  Overslept again.  I sat up in bed at 7:08 AM today, a full
38 minutes after when that's usually supposed to happen.  Not too much
important stuff happens during that time.  I usually just sleepily
empty the dishwasher while waiting for coffee to finish brewing, let
the dogs out, then at 6:55 AM I sit down at the computer and pretend
to write.  Along with writing down ideas throughout the day, that's
another trick I've found to make journaling easier in the morning.  I
found that if you take five minutes to bring yourself into the moment
and focus on the act of writing, the words come easier.

But like I said, all that went out the window this morning.  It's 7:15
AM at the time of writing this, so you're either going to get a
shorter entry, or a normal entry preceding me running to the bus stop
in a panic.

I stayed up pretty late working on my new blog format.  It's always
one of those projects that kind of takes over your night, and before
you know it "little tweaks" turn into full blown rewrites, then of
course you have to finish it before the morning when it's writing
time.

But that being said, I hope you like it.  It's feeling like a regular
website now, isn't it?  Last night while I was hacking away, I thought
about my blogging journey, which started long before the daily journal
cadence.  I used wordpress, django, medium, jekyll.  I used to spend
days writing articles, trying to make people laugh, rile them up about
something, and teach them about tech.  I used to use a lot of inline
images with snarky captions, kind of like the /Cracked/ articles I
used to read in college.  I used to post the entries all over reddit,
hoping to get discovered, and I'd obsessively watch the analytics.

It was good to take a break from it all.  When I started journaling
every morning, it wasn't even about blogging.  It was just about
warming up for the day, centering my self, and having a place to leave
honest thoughts.  But it turned out to be exactly what my struggling
blogging voice needed.  I learned to write for myself - not reddit or
facebook.

Sixty-seven entries ago, I started posting the journal entries online
again.  The danger of fixating on the image of my blog was still
there, so I proceeded back into the public internet with great
caution.  I wrote a little script that would convert the latest five
entries to HTML and publish them to the Internet.  I knew that if it
was any more complicated then that, the bells and whistles would
distract me from the writing.

So this blog is the next evolution of that.  I'm still just running a
simple little script to convert the entries to HTML, but it's a little
more /gussied/ up.  It should be easier to read on your phone, and all
the entries are saved permanently, so feel free to share and bookmark
the entries you enjoy, they're not going anywhere.

My favorite part about this system is that I'm still totally
abstracted away from the sensation of having a blog.  I'm still
writing in my text file, like I have been since the beginning.  I
don't even stick around to watch it publish, after I kick of the
script, I just jump into the shower and let the automation take over.
I'm kind of like a super villain triggering a doomsday device every
morning.  It's easier to focus on the content that way, along with the
real reason I'm journaling every day.  I'm not tracking views, sending
out subscriptions, or trying to get noticed on reddit anymore.  I'm
not even trying to amuse you, rile you up, or make you laugh.  I'm
journaling because I like the way it makes me feel, and I like the
effect it has on the rest of my day.  If you're out there reading, I
really appreciate the readership, but I'm not keeping score.  I'm
still moving forward without a "comment platform" or tracking
viewership through analytics, so feel free to either enjoy it in
anonymity, or send me an [[mailto:alex@reckerfamily.com][email]] to out yourself - that's wonderful too.
Who doesn't love getting emails?

Hope you all have a wonderful Thursday today.  I need to jump in the
shower, then frantically run to the bus stop like a kid who is late
for school.

*** 2019-09-13 Friday thunderstorms, bulgogi, and pto

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Friday to you, reader.  Wasn't the rain
beautiful last night?  By us, the gentle thunder continued into most
of the night, providing a great soundtrack for evening work and
relaxation.  However, not everyone enjoyed the rain.  Rodney had
trouble falling asleep, being scared of the thunder.  Marissa gave him
a quick snuggle and tucked him in, assuring him that the noises
outside were just like music.  After Marissa went back into her
studio, I heard his quiet voice sleepily repeat "it's music" just a
few more times before drifting off for the night.  Mom's are the best,
aren't they?

Yesterday was a pretty busy work day, but I got my work done, and in
the last thirty minutes of the day instead of attending Thursday's
happy hour on the lower floor, I prepared to make [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2LyD3sNegE][bulgogi]].  I watched
the video a few times, made a grocery list, and planned out the
timeline.  The recipe involved making a marinade from grated onions,
garlic, ginger, brown sugar, pears, and hot pepper paste, then using
the mixture to soak and soften thin strips of beef for exactly one
hour - a difficult feat for a weeknight meal.  On the bus ride home, I
sent Marissa a slack message warning her that I would be moving pretty
fast when I got home, sacrificing the usual five minutes I take to put
my stuff down and play with the dogs while we catch up.

At 4:58 PM, I walked in the door and trotted upstairs to wake Rodney
up.  He was in a deep nap, and a little groggy, but I told him we were
going to Hy-Vee and he rallied.  These days, he likes taking his large
giant stuffed giraffe on our grocery store trips, which isn't nearly
as distracting as you might think.

Rodney, Giraffe, and I hit the road and got to Hy-Vee at 5:15 PM.  We
made a quick lap around the store picking up what we needed for the
marinade, and Rodney grabbed some goldfish to snack on as well.
Rodney is pretty helpful at Hy-Vee - he stays by my side, or sits down
below on the lip of the cart, sometimes getting up to take direction
and put things in the basket.  By 5:26 PM, we were heading through the
parking lot back to the car.

We pulled into the driveway at 5:35 PM.  That gave me about 15 minutes
before I had to get the beef in the marinade.  Before I even put the
groceries away, I was grating onion, garlic, and ginger, which gave me
a good cry, and felt pretty nice.  By 5:45 PM, I started to slice the
steak, and 5:50 PM the prep was finished, steak happily resting in the
fridge in a slurry of deliciousness.  I breathed a sigh of relief,
plopping down on the couch with Marissa and Rod to have our postponed
daily catch up.

The rest of the bulgogi recipe was pretty simple.  I made some rice,
then spent the rest of the hour preparing to make a lot of smoke.  The
recipe calls for searing the strips of beef in cast iron heated to
literally the hottest temperature your stove can reach.  Marissa
helped me open up all the windows, and I took the batteries out of the
smoke detector.

After an hour, while wearing my BBQ heat proof mits, I started to sear
the beef.  It made a wonderful sound, as a plume of wet delicious
steam billowed toward the ceiling.  I did my best to sear each piece
for two minutes per side, but I overcrowded the pan just a bit, so I
did my best.  Dinner was ready by 7 PM on the dot, and even though I
didn't get nearly as much delicious brown crust as I would have liked,
there was enough to prove the recipe worked - a great home recipe
peeking through a minor setback.  And even though the timing was just
a bit too tight for a weekday dinner, there's always the weekend.
Next time, I'll try marinating the beef for longer and searing the
strips in smaller batches.

After dinner, Marissa spent time in the studio painting, and I hacked
a bit on my blog.  I added a "streak calculator" to the home page,
which measures how many consecutive days I've made a journal entry.  I
also re enabled my RSS feed, which was a bit startling because the
automation started spamming my twitter and slack, spuriously sending
out updates for every entry I've made in the last week.

Today will be kind of a strange day.  I scheduled some vacation time
for the second half of the work day, planning on heading to Chicago
with Marissa for a party, but Marissa is not feeling well, so we
cancelled.  But the whole thing happened pretty recently, and I didn't
have time to remove my PTO entry, so I'm still going to take a half
day off.  And that's fine, I had a pretty busy week of work, and I'll
happily use the time to walk somewhere with Marissa and Rod and enjoy
the afternoon.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Remember, thunderstorms are just
like music, and open all the windows in your house before making
Korean BBQ beef.

*** 2019-09-14 Saturday outages

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone, and happy Saturday.  I'm struggling this
morning, it's been a really tough weekend thus far, and I don't even
know where to begin.  I'll tell you this, the theme of this weekend is
"broken software".

Yesterday at work, we had a pretty severe outage.  It was nobody's
fault, and everyone was just doing their job, but one of the systems
that my team manages failed and took down our production services for
most of our customers.  I'm on call this week, so I was paged in the
late morning.  My whole team would shortly jump in, so I hardly felt
alone, but incidents suck.  Trying to fix things during an incident is
nothing short of a horrible out of body experience.  Suddenly, you
feel like a stranger at your own computer.  You feel every painful
passing second in slow motion, and yet somehow the whole day
disappears.  The incident lasted about three hours, I think.  I was
supposed to take a half day yesterday, but by the time we called all
clear it was into the afternoon.  I packed up my stuff, gave a few
friendly waves to my weary, shell-shocked team, then left the building
and walked toward my house down East Wash for about an hour.  Marissa
and Rodney scooped me up somewhere by the Yahara bridge with a bag of
Portillo's.

It actually took a bit of time for the negative thoughts to creep in.
At first I was still high from the adrenaline, and quite proud that we
managed to restore the service at all, but the feeling wore off and I
was pretty down in the dumps for the rest of the night.  We tell new
people at work a number of platitudes, like "we're a blameless
culture", "breaking things is part of the job", and "shit happens,
let's do better next time" - all very true and healthy perspectives,
but it's hard to practice what you preach.  What always gets me is
reading angry tweets from customers.  It bothers me that something I
was responsible for kept people from getting their work done.

After Rodney's nap, I took him to the grocery store.  I was tempted to
wallow around in my sweatpants for the rest of the day, but I knew
that getting out of the house and doing something that didn't involve
technology would feel good - and it did.  Rodney and I had a great
time walking around the grocery store.  The Jenny Street Market had
pumpkins lined up along every aisle, and Rodney was jazzed.  You
should have seen his face when I told him we could get one, he just
about crapped his pants from excitement.  He carried the tiny pumpkin
around like it was a sacred relic.

When we got home, I cooked a pizza while Marissa painted and Rodney
watched TV.  We normally make /sfincione/ on Friday, and we have to
kind of rush it into the oven so we don't eat late, but having a head
start allowed to me to take my time, listen to music, and do some
thinking.  After the pizza was out of the oven, we took it over to the
Malthouse and ate on the back patio.  We stayed there for about an
hour until it was Rodney's bed time.

Marissa put Rodney to bed, and I decided to sit on the deck and
continue to enjoy the cool fall air.  I started a little fire in my
grill and put on some music.  I was so comfortable, that I actually
nodded off for about a half hour, waking up when Marissa joined me
outside.

My night started to get better.  Marissa and I talked for a bit out by
the fire, then made our way inside to watch /Rambo 2/.  We were in the
mood for a stupid action movie, and /Rambo/ is one of those movies I
like to periodically check in on to see how poorly it's aging.  And
it's true, Stallone looks so uncomfortable clambering through the
jungle.

Just as the weekend started to take an upturn, I woke up this morning
to a fried file server.  It appears at some point, my home file
server's boot drive failed - the kind of error that would go unnoticed
for weeks until you finally decided to reboot it - like I did this
morning.  I'm not going to lie to you, reader - I lost my temper, and
I had a new one for the anger journal.  I'm just about fed up with
software breaking.  Sure, home projects like this aren't critically
depended on.  The only consequence of this outage is a wife and son
that will have to just stick with Netflix for the next few days, but
for people like me, home tech projects are supposed to be kind of a
refuge from the software problems at work, and it still sucks when
they break.

I was tempted to skip journaling today, but just like when I forced
myself to take Rod to the grocery store, I knew that deep down it
would be good for me to take pause before losing myself in fixing
things.  It felt good to share how I'm feeling, and I'm already in a
better mood.  Thanks for reading.  I hope you all have a great
weekend.  Now if you'll excuse me, I have a file server to fix.  I had
better brew some more coffee.

*** 2019-09-15 Sunday servers, chores, projects, and wings

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you are all having a wonderful Sunday so
far.  After beginning yesterday with the "doom and gloom" theme of
broken software, things quickly took an upward turn.  We walked to
Walgreens so I could pick up a replacement USB drive, grabbed some
Taco Bell on the way home, then I got to fixing the file server.  I
had forgotten that at some point I moved most of the critical
configuration data onto a more resilient disk, so after recreating the
boot drive and importing the old data, the old file server came right
back up.  It even remembered where Marissa had left off watching the
Office and where Rodney had left off watching the Lion King.  I had
feared the project would soak up the rest of the weekend, but it was
all over in an hour.  To prevent this kind of issue from happening
again, I even added a second identical boot drive.  It's pretty
gratifying to just rip out a USB drive or a computer part while the
computer is booting and witness it pretty much have no effect.  As a
techie, that might be my version of revving a car engine at a
stoplight.  I used the extra time while Rodney was napping to clean up
some other things that were in the backlog, concluding my Saturday
side project stint.  Before I knew it, everything felt like a regular
Saturday again.

Speaking of side projects, my birthday is coming up, and I think it's
a reasonable assumption that I might come into some spending money
soon.  I'm already starting to think about redoing the tech wall.
Last time we checked on it, I had paired it down to just the bare
bones router, and there's a pretty big chunk of Plexiglass wide open.
But yesterday it occurred to me that it might make more sense to put a
shelf or two there.  That would allow me to be a little more
economical with the space, and be able to rearrange things without
having to bug Marissa to break out the powerdrill.  And I still think
a shelf of miniature servers would look pretty cool, especially if I
went with one of those clear plastic cases.

After Rodney woke up from his nap, I took him to Hy-Vee.  I didn't
have anything wild & risky planned for dinner - just some chicken
breasts, asparagus, and potatoes - all things that could be slowly
roasted over the same indirect heat on the grill, which gave me plenty
of time to sit outside on the porch and enjoy the cool weather with
Marissa and Rod.  As a little snack, I tossed a few thin cuts of stale
French bread right over the coals, charring them for a few seconds.  I
love experimenting with stale bread - we seem to have it around all
the time, and it's pretty expendable.  If you mess it up - no biggie,
it was stale anyway!

After dinner, I began the rigamarole of putting Rodney to bed.  It was
a late one, especially because we still had to shower and put his
laundry away.  Rodney helped fold and hang his clothes.  These days,
I'm pretty impressed with what he can pick up on.  I've started to
assume that he can handle any kind of job, and half of the time he
gets it right.  He can bring things into the house, get things out of
the fridge, and put things away.  I think we're finally hitting the
tipping point, and my head is spinning thinking of all the chores we
can finally delegate away.

This morning, we're sleeping in, enjoying the return to 11 AM church
services.  Getting to mix a whole extra hour into the Sunday morning
routine makes a big difference.  I'll wrap up this journal entry, then
finish a cup of coffee and heat up some breakfast leftovers.
Yesterday morning I made a whole Dutch baby that went right from the
skillet into some Tupperware.  In hindsight, those things are so easy
to make, there's no reason to ever make one ahead of time.

After church, Marissa and I had some projects we wanted to get done.
We're going head home for some leftovers, pick up a few things at
Hy-Vee and Hobby Lobby, then we're hoping to clean the outside
windows - one of those chores that we still haven't done, despite
living in this house for four or five years.  And judging by some of
the windows look, it's a chore that probably hasn't been done since
the roaring twenties.

After chores, I'm going to make Chef John's [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBI8TceHD9k][RAM Wings]] for the Bears
game.  We haven't had a game in two weeks, which has been a real test
of my newfound football faith, but I'm still beating the drum.

Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday.  Clean your windows, eat chicken
wings, and rest up before another work week.  See you tomorrow, sports
fans.

*** 2019-09-16 Monday bears, wings, tv, and work

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I just stepped outside to let the dogs.  The
morning air is cool, and there's a thick layer off fog resting on
everything.  It's hard to believe it's going to get up to 80 degrees
today - and all week.  Yuck.

This weekend was pretty great.  It started off a little rocky with the
outage at work, but it appears I just needed some family time, good
food, and of course, a little football.  For those keeping score, the
Bears won yesterday.  What a wild game!  We held off Denver up until
the last quarter when they inched ahead with an embarrassing two point
conversion.  I thought that we were done for.  We had about 30 seconds
remaining, and up until that point our offense had been pretty
underwhelming, and I was doubting we'd be able to make it anywhere
close to field goal range.  But miraculously, Trubisky completed a
pass with one second remaining, which was just enough time for Eddy
Pineiro to drill a 53 yard field goal.  Given how our last season
ended, Chicago fans deserved to be on the winning side of a clutch
field goal situation.  I'm happy we got the win, but the game
demonstrated we still have some serious jitters to sort out,
particularly in our offense.  It appears we've over corrected and
chosen to disproportionately run the ball, and I hope that didn't get
in Trubisky's head, because he had some pretty terrible passes (except
for the last).  To borrow from a reddit comment, winning that game
felt like walking away from a bloody crime scene.  I will say this, we
have a hell of a kicker and a hell of a defense, and I think we can
work with that.

It was an exciting game, and even though it probably shaved a few
years off my life, it was fun to yell at the TV and celebrate.
Marissa and I agreed that we weren't expecting football to get so
exciting so quickly.  I thought we would have to pay our dues and
watch at least a handful of dreary, scoreless losses or something.

After the game, we sat down to eat some chicken wings.  I made a batch
of Chef John's RAM wings (which stands for /Rosemary Ancho
Molasses/).  They were pretty good - definitely the best batch of
wings I've ever made.  And that's no surprise, I believe Chef John
hails from West New York, so I imagine he knows what he's doing.  They
were a bit too spicy for Rod, so tossed an odd combination of sliced
turkey, mayo, and pickles.  Half way through dinner, we all broke out
into laughter when Marissa goaded Rod to eat, saying "Rod, eat some
more of your... uh... stuff."

After dinner, I worked a bit on the file server while Marissa painted,
then we reconvened sometime around ten to watch TV.  We found a new
show called [[https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=video&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjm48CzqtXkAhXLs54KHXHsDkoQtwIIKDAA&url=https%253A%252F%252Fwww.youtube.com%252Fwatch%253Fv%253D6uWCNHQgfnc&usg=AOvVaw2SNv0YArO6mT7QLA1OYfnH][Undone]] that instantly sucked us in.  We're already over
half way done with the season, but the episodes are brief and
engaging, and as long as they aren't setting me up for a terrible
ending, it's already joined the ranks in my all time favorite TV
shows.

I'm grateful for this weekend.  Work was really tough on Friday, and I
was worried I wouldn't be able to shake it off, but with enough family
time, football, movies, chicken wings, hobbies, and naps by the fire,
I forgot all about work.  This morning, it's back to reality.  This
week we have a lot of clean-up to do.  I tried to stay off work slack
all weekend, but it's safe to assume I'll spend most of today helping
to compile a report for the outage on Friday and working on what
broke.  It will probably derail our team's plans for this quarter, but
I think that's fair.  An outage like the one we had on Friday should
be a bit of a wake up call.  I'm ready to jump in, knowing I have my
arsenal of relaxation waiting for me when I get home.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  If you too are feeling the
Monday blues, try to remember all the wonderful, relaxing things you
have waiting for you at home.  Bear down, readers.

*** 2019-09-17 Tuesday coffee, fish, butterflies, and work

Dear Journal,

The coffee is really good today.  Yesterday I went to the Jenny Street
Market, and it wasn't very busy, so Rod and I finally figured out how
to buy whole bean coffee.  It's a bit of a to-do, so I'm glad I
waited.  You have to walk away from checkout to fill the bag, and then
the cashier has to weigh the beans.  I went with /Del Sol/, the
morning blend, and even when brewed with our uninspiring coffee maker,
it tastes pretty next level.

This morning I've got work on my mind.  I spent pretty much all day
yesterday documenting Friday's outage.  My team did some research on
Friday, and I did some of my own Monday afternoon.  This morning, we
have our post mortem meeting.  These things feel very official, and
even though my work does a really good job keeping things objective
and blameless, I can still get defensive if I don't watch myself.
This morning I'm just trying to get in the right head space for a very
friendly, amicable technical cross examination.

Yesterday I finally went off call, and I enjoyed the solitude today.
For lunch I grabbed a sandwich from Starbucks, then I sat on the
terrace and stared out at the water.  It wasn't as hot outside as I
thought it would be, and the as always water had a very calming
presence.  There were still a few monarch butterflies hanging out by
the flowers.  I thought those butterflies were supposed to take their
winter migration pretty seriously, but maybe if they find a place they
like, they hang out for an extra week or two - there's probably room
for that kind of freedom in the butterfly community, right?

After work, I took Rod to the market, and we picked up stuff to make
Kibbeling.  As always, I got plenty of cod and shrimp, but I also
tried out some perch.  The perch looked pretty cool while it was
frying.  The thin strips puffed up in the hot oil, and the skin
blistered.  I'm also learning to be a little less shy with the heat.
I really cranked the stove and allowed the oil to reach the upper
300's, and it came out a lot crispier.  I also left the shrimp in for
almost a full minute after I'd normally take them out, just as an
experiment.  It's tricky finding a balance between getting it crispy
and cooked just right.  I used to talk a lot of crap about the fried
fish they sell on Fridays at restaurants around Madison, but I'm
finally coming around to how difficult it is to perfect.  When you're
frying fish, there's a lot of room for choice, and also a lot of room
for error.

After dinner, Marissa gave Rod a bath, then handed him off to me to
put to bed, which is a pretty classic way to divvy up the bedtime
routine.  After getting his pajamas on, Rod wanted to spend a few
minutes jumping around like a frog.  Lately, he really likes to stall
during bedtime, so every inane step of the bedtime routine has the
potential to turn into a big time waster if you're not vigilant.
He'll stop brushing his teeth to look out the window, then he'll tell
you a story of the time he saw a cat in the neighbor's window, then
before you know it he's grabbed a brush out of the bathroom closet and
started to scrub the bathroom walls (the painted walls).  When we
finally make it to bed, his new trick is asking to read the story
instead of me, which was charming at first, but he's quickly realized
that when he's got my attention it's much easier to burn minutes after
the official bedtime of 7:30, hamming it up with stories, throwing his
voice into his stuffed animals, and pretending to talk on the phone to
family members.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa sanded frames outside, and I sat out
there with her and drank a beer.  It felt good to just enjoy the
conversation without having to keep an eye on my phone in case I got
paged.  The day after my on-call shift ends, I joke that I "stick my
phone in a drawer all night", and it's not far from the truth.  I
usually put on music and just leave it in the kitchen.

After the post mortem today, I'm probably going to feel like a mid day
beer, so Marissa and Rodney are going to meet me for lunch for taco
Tuesday.  It will feel nice to finally close the book on Friday's
incident.  We'll have to spend a few weeks focusing on preventative
measures, but that's not so bad.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-09-18 Wednesday outages, restaurants, groceries, and rigatoni

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  I hope wherever you are
while you're reading this, you're feeling good, and you too have a hot
cup of coffee to enjoy.

Yesterday turned out to be a pretty good day.  In the morning, we had
the postmortem meeting from Friday's incident.  I spent all of Monday
and all of Tuesday morning working on the report, and I think when it
came time to present to the company what happened, we looked very
thoughtful and prepared.  It helped having my team there.  I can go
nuts with throwing details into a document, but I get nervous around
higher ups - not just at this company, but at pretty much any company
I've worked for.  So it helped having the team to help word-smith
things.  These meetings are important to get right, because no matter
what happens, they expect to create immediate short term work for your
team to prevent the incident from happening again.  It's important to
make sure that everyone on the call understands exactly what happened,
otherwise you may end up committing to something that won't help or
that you can't actually do.

While incidents obviously make our company look bad, I really wish I
could show people what it looks like from inside the walls.  It's a
well-oiled machine.  In a matter of seconds, the page is triaged and
suddenly everyone is in the same slack channel & talking in a zoom
call.  Every action is measured - whether we're restarting a server or
sending out a tweet to customers.  When I get paged into an incident,
I feel like I'm part of a crack IT fire department, and it would be
really fun if not for the actual incident.

After the postmortem, I felt I deserved a lunch beer, so I met
Marissa, Rodney, and Ziggy on the square.  We found an empty table at
a fancy burger place, eating burgers and fried pickles under the shade
of an umbrella.  It's a mystery why some perfectly good restaurants on
the square are never busy during lunch.  We walked right into DLUX at
noon and the place was pretty much empty.  I don't understand it.
They've got good service, a solid tap list, and they make a decent
burger.  DLUX kind of reminds me of Brocach's before they closed, in
that despite how good it was, it was always nearly empty during peak
hours.  That's a bad omen for DLUX, and I wonder if they're aware of
it.  Maybe that's why they're so friendly.

After lunch, I had a few more meetings and chipped away at some more
work.  At the end of the work day, I switched gears to make a grocery
list and prepare to make dinner.  I was planning on making [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbDjjS6H9cM][Soupe aux
Choux]] from the French Cooking Academy channel (which I highly
recommend, Stefan is an odd, charming treasure).  But the soup would
take about an hour and a half on the stove, and time would be tight,
so I saved that recipe for today when I could get a jump on it.
Instead, I went with good old rigatoni.

After work, Marissa went with Rod and I to the store to do some
shopping.  When I go alone with Rod, we're a little more procedural,
getting our groceries and checking out in about 20-25 minutes.  It's
fun when Marissa comes along because we take our time, picking up
plenty of snacks and screwing around along the way.  Rod and I do this
thing now where he shoots pretend webs out of his hands, and to
complete the illusion I swing him around with his arms, sometimes
letting him run up walls or jump off pillars - you know - to give him
the real Spider-Man experience.

When we got home, I got to cooking rigatoni.  I'm getting pretty good
at red meat sauces, perhaps because it's hard to go wrong.  I start
with pancietta and whatever herbs I have laying around, render out the
fat, then add the red sauce.  I simmer it for a while, then when it's
nice and thick, I sneak in some butter and reduce the heat to a
simmer.  I cook the noodles just below /al dente/ and added them to
the sauce.  Then in five minute increments, while the noodles are
finishing cooking, I sneak in some grated parmesan cheese.  The
rigatoni draws up the cheesy sauce with capillary action, kind of like
making mac and cheese, then to break up the hearty flavors, I toss in
some chopped parsley and give it a final toss.  We usually serve it
with good old Hy-Vee brand frozen garlic bread, which I haven't been
able to recreate.  And knowing how much butter is caked on this silly
little frozen bread sticks, I almost resent it for how good it smells
coming out of the oven.  One day I may replace their garlic bread with
my own, but for now, I'll kiss the ring.

Hey - have a great day everyone.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-09-19 Thursday outages, soup, music, and hitch

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone, and happy Thursday.  The weather has been so
interesting this week in Madison.  For the most part, it's been
gloomy.  The mornings and evenings are dark, and we've had some rain,
but there's also lots of sun peeking through the clouds, making for
some very dramatic skies.  There's lots of angst in the air.

Work continues to get a little dicey.  The other day, I compared
working incidents to being on a crack IT fire fighting team, but
yesterday it felt like I started work and the fire department was on
fire.  We had a handful of incidents throughout the day.  After
Marissa got back from dog practice, our services were still pretty
unstable and I was too nervous to go anywhere for lunch, so we heated
up some leftover rigatoni while I continued working.  I still had a
beer - that's a staple for Wednesday lunch.

Outages suck.  When we have a bad week, the hardest part is having to
set aside your work routine.  I'm used to a weekly rhythm.  But when
you have a few incidents in a row, the meetings and rituals you're
used to are replaced with marshal law in which you just have to be
ready for anything.  That's made it a challenging week, both
technically and emotionally.  I was talking with Marissa on the porch
last night, and coincidently she's had kind of a tough work week too.
We've been trying not to bum each other out, but it felt good to put
that aside and have a good hearty vent session.

After work, I took Rod to the market.  Cooking is a great way to
channel work stress, and last night my goal was to funnel all my
emotions into making a big pot of soup.  Rod and I picked up two whole
cabbages, some bacon, chicken stock, carrots, onions, Gruyère cheese,
and a load of sourdough bread.  When we got home, I got to work
blanching the cabbage while Rod peeled some carrots.  Everything went
into the same pot - carrots, onions, bacon, and two whole heads of
sliced cabbage, filled to the top with chicken stock.  It was good
that the lid of my Dutch oven was so heavy, because everything in the
pot needed to be weighed down and compressed to fit in the pot.  The
soup simmered for an hour and a half.  I was tempted to open the lid
about 30 minutes in, but some good smells started to fill the kitchen
and that was enough proof for me that Stefan, yet again, was a good
bet.

Marissa, Rod, and I ate the soup outside on the porch while the sun
went down.  It was a little mild for a weeknight recipe, but I'm still
going to keep this recipe in my back pocket for the next time one of
us catches a cold or has a sensitive stomach.  The soft cabbage,
tender bacon, and warm chicken broth was comforting, but the soup
never got the after dinner nap it really deserved.

Since dinner was a little light, we took Rod to go get some ice cream.
We jumped in the car and drove down the street to McDonalds.  When we
got home, we let Rod watch an episode of [[https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3952774/][Stinky & Dirty]] while he
finished his ice cream, then Marissa put him to bed.

I had lots of chores to catch up, and since Kids Code starts this
week, I wanted to make Thursday's dinner ahead of time.  I fried up a
pound of bacon and made garlic mayo for BLT sandwiches, then cleaned
the kitchen.  Marissa sanded frames in the dining room, and we both
listened to the new Taylor Swift album.  I wasn't a fan of the album
at first, and there are so many lyrics and little noises she makes
that make me roll my eyes, but last night I'd have to conclude that
the thing that saves the album is the production.  Every song - even
the ones I can't stand - sound so good as a finished product.

Chores wrapped up around 10:30.  Marissa and I caught up on some
YouTube videos, then we started a movie.  Marissa proposed that we
try to watch more movies, even if we have to spread them out over two
days, and the challenge of watching every movie we own appealed to
me.  Last night, I used my pick on the movie /Hitch/.  That movie has
not aged well.  The classic scenes, like Will Smith teaching Kevin
James to dance, still hold up, but the rest of the movie just sounds
so bizarre to me now.  Ten years ago, it was a suave, sexy romantic
comedy.  In high school, I thought the dialog was pretty smooth.
Watching it again, the film is packed with so many cliches, it almost
feels like I'm watching a surreal Tim & Eric sketch or something.

In a bit, I'm heading into work to fight more fires, armed with
leftover cabbage soup.  I have a feeling I'll need the comfort food
today.  After work, I'm making some BLTs for the family, then heading
over to the library for our first Kids Code session of the semester.

Hope you all have a wonderful Thursday today.  Remember, /Life is not
the amount of breaths you take, it's the moments that take your breath
away./ Quiz time - was that a Taylor Swift lyric or a line from
/Hitch/?

*** 2019-09-20 Friday staring, holograms, and hitch

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope you're feeling good this Friday morning,
and if you're still waking up, don't worry - you'll get there.  It's
been a long, tough week of outages at work, but I'm glad we've finally
arrived at Friday, and there's a weekend, and more importantly, the
Bears are playing on Monday.

Yesterday at work, there were no outages, so the mood leveled out a
bit.  Our work corner felt a little less like mission control in
/Apollo 13/, and I finally felt like I had time to breathe, plan my
day, and go for coffee refills without fear of something catastrophic
happening while I was gone.  For lunch, I heated up the rest of the
cabbage soup.  It was one of those soups that gets more flavorful over
time, and that makes sense doesn't it?  I could imagine the bacon
continues to break down in the fridge and diffuse into the broth,
making it taste meatier.  After lunch I went for a long walk around
the square.  The terrace was closed, so I couldn't sit there and stare
at the water like I usually do, but I found a nice balcony by the
parking garage to do the same.

I could imagine that some people think that when I stand somewhere
with a view and stare, I'm doing heavy thinking or working through
something, but truth be told I'm usually not thinking about anything.
I even don't focus my eyes on anything in front of me.  Sometimes it
just feels good to stare off into space and stop processing
information, and you draw less suspicion if you do this somewhere with
a nice view.  I think I've done this for as long as I can remember.  I
used to sit and stare off into space during class in school when I
finished my work early, and it used to drive me crazy when a student
took it upon themselves to slowly wave their hand in front of my face,
like it was their responsibility to bring me back down to earth.  I'd
usually smirk, politely letting them know "haha - you caught me
spacing out, and now thanks to your vigilance I'm back here on earth,"
but I've always wondered why people felt the need to do that.
Luckily, interruptions by the terrace are few, and I can stare all I
want without people waving their hand in front of my face.

After work, I took the bus home and started putting together BLT
sandwiches right when I walked through the door.  On Thursdays when I
help out at Kids Code, I only have about a half hour before I have to
walk over to the library and set up.  The sourdough bread I bought
from Jenny Street is good, but it gets hard as a rock the next day, so
we had some trouble eating the sandwiches.  Out of frustration, I
started jerking my neck around with the sandwich held in my teeth,
like a dog, and that got a good laugh at the dinner table.

I headed over to the library around 5:40 to set up for Kids Code.
Some people were already starting to trickle in.  By the time club
started, it was clear that we had more kids than spare laptops, and
while that's a great problem in that it reflects on how popular we're
getting, it gets a bit tricky making sure everyone has something to
do.  Some of our older, regular attendees graciously agreed to share
their computers or forfeit them to work on some hardware stuff.  Last
night, Brad fashioned a hologram out of cut up CD cases and an old TV
monitor.  He had described it to me a week earlier at our planning
meeting, but it was even cooler in person.  He played a youtube video
of a few lightning bolts rotating around in a circle, and the flat
monitor on the table projected the image onto the splayed plastic,
making it look like it was floating in the center.  It was truly like
something out of star wars.

After Kids Code, I collapsed on the couch and fell asleep while
watching YouTube.  Marissa wins /wife of the week/ for picking up my
slack on dishes.  I woke up in a panic thinking yesterday's BLT prep
was still festering in the sink, and a wave of comfort washed over me
when I heard the dishwasher was already running.

We sat on the couch and first watched the [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lMbseuQR2G8][Hot Ones Season 10 Premier]],
then we watched a little more of Hitch.  Hitch update: things are
going great for Hitch.  He had a very wacky second date with Sara
Meelas where he had a hilarious allergic reaction to some shell fish,
but the date ended with a kiss.  And you know she's thinking "was that
my /last/ first kiss?"  I think it was, Hitch.  Something tells me
that after only twenty minutes of conflict, you're going to win her
back by getting over your own trust issues and finally being real with
her, and even more kisses will follow.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Happy Friday, readers.  Go
for a walk today, stop somewhere with a view, and stare off into space
for a while, I think you'll like it.

*** 2019-09-21 Saturday chaos, moving, arguments, and potty

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Saturday to you.  I had a great start to
the weekend.  At work, morale improved, as we finally started to make
some progress with recreating some of the conditions for the incident
last week.  We're starting to find answers, and the new discoveries
had a positive effect on everyone.  I spent a good amount of time
performing "chaos testing", which basically just involves standing up
a copy of your service in an isolated environment and breaking it in
various ways, looking for weak points.  Yesterday, I set up 100 VMs
that did nothing but submit a giant text file to our service.  I
wanted to create a lot of network noise, so in an homage to one of my
favorite movies, the payload just included =ALL WORK AND NO PLAY MAKES
JACK A DULL BOY= /ad infinitum/.  For lunch, I grabbed a wrap from the
Good Food cart and ate it on the terrace, staring at the water.

After work, Marissa, Rod, and I went out to eat at Sal's pizza.  Sal's
is a solid pizza place.  It's difficult to park there, and it's pretty
busy during dinner, but it's one of those places where you just need
to call ahead before you leave, and it all works out.  I wolfed down
one of their small thin crust pizzas, then polished off the rest of my
beer while Marissa and I chatted about the neighborhood.  We set up
this little Friday outing to check out a new part of the city and
start gathering intel for when we move someday - not that it's
happening any time soon, but Marissa and I feel differently about it.
The thought of moving terrifies me, so we agreed to occasionally go
for walks in different neighborhoods just to start easing me into the
idea of living somewhere else someday.  We parked the car in a
lake-side neighborhood on the other side of the Yahara river, walked
around the block, and sat at the playground for a while.  If we had
done this thing three years ago, I probably would have been defensive
and felt the need to play devil's advocate, pointing out everything in
the neighborhood that troubled me for fear that if I didn't, we'd be
throwing our stuff in a moving truck the next day.  But I didn't.
Maybe I'm a little wiser now, but I decided to just walk, listen, and
keep my opinions to myself.  It paid off, because Marissa decided she
didn't like the neighborhood much either.  Looking back, I probably
could have avoided a lot of arguments that way.

After finishing our lap around the block, we jumped in the car and
went home.  I put Rod to bed, then spent some time cleaning the
kitchen.  I shirked some of my chores on Thursday night when I fell
asleep on the couch, and it felt good to get things under control
again.  I even used some extra lettuce and tomatoes to pack a lunch
for Marissa to take to her agility trial this weekend.  Don't tell
her, but she thinks I wrote a heart felt note on the napkin, but all
it says is "[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7RoP1LKMeM][I'M PRISON MIKE!]]".

After chores, we finally finished up the movie Hitch.  I barely paid
attention to the ending.  I was working on some code for my website,
but I'm pretty sure everything worked out for Hitch.  Sure, it got a
little rough for a minute when Sara Meelas assumed the worst about
him, but Hitch really took his sweet time clearing the air, didn't he?
He waited until the end of his dramatic speech before making it clear
that he /didn't/ work with the gross guy that seduced her friend.
Really Hitch?  You could have started with that piece of information
and put everyone at ease.

This morning, Rodney and I are hanging around the house watching
Thomas the Train while Marissa and Ziggy drive to an agility
tournament in Milwaukee.  Rod and I are doing a bit of potty training.
Up until now, Marissa's been fighting the good fight alone, so I
wanted to get some hours in myself.  Update - we're on our fourth pair
of underwear and Rod has only been up for about two hours.  What's
amazing to me is how quickly he can urinate.  I look away for two
seconds, then suddenly he's standing in a puddle of water, wringing
out his underwear.

After I finish journaling, we're going to take a walk to the grocery
store, and if the weather stays decent, we're going to shoot hoops at
the community center.  Later today after I get dinner going, I'm
hoping to get some programming in.  I'd like to finish cleaning up the
script that publishes my blog, and I've been dying to get some time
with my new miniature kubernetes cluster.

Hope you have a wonderful day today, and thanks for reading.
Remember, before you get defensive with someone you care about, wait a
few extra minutes to see if you actually disagree.  It doesn't have to
be a long time - just a few minutes.  Which is apparently enough time
to piss your pants twice.

*** 2019-09-22 Sunday basketball, lunch, and movies

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  We woke up this morning to pretty steady rain
outside.  The dogs were pretty thrown off.  At first they didn't want
to go outside, but I herded them into the lawn like a couple of sheep.
Zig zig did her business under the porch, like a squirrel on the run.
She would leave the other half of her business on the carpet just five
minutes later.

Yesterday, Marissa took Ziggy to an agility trial in Milwaukee, so I
had a whole day with Rodney.  We had some breakfast, then spent about
an hour furthering the potty training effort while I cleaned up the
kitchen.  Things are starting to look promising on that front - we
would later have three successful potty sessions in total.  Rod and I
walked to the community center to play some basketball.  Even though
the regulation height hoops were way too tall for him, he seemed to
have a good time just hanging out on the court and rolling the ball
around.  I enjoyed myself quite a bit too.  It's been a while since I
took a few minutes to shoot hoops.  My long & mid range game are
pretty terrible, but I still have a pretty consistent lay up.

As I played basketball with Rodney, I thought about how I used to play
with my friends in grade school during lunch.  I was a terrible
shooter, so I tried to make a name for myself on the school court just
stuffing people's shots.  My friends used to tease me that I could
only dribble in one direction, and my jump shot had a ridiculously
high arc that would go well above the backboard some times.  The
teasing was well-placed - like I said, I spent most of my time trying
to figure out how to swat other people's shots away, and half the time
I'd end up just swatting their arm or head, and since there were no
fouls in recess pick-up basketball, people just had to deal with me.
I imagine I was pretty frustrating to play with.

At one point I joined the basketball team for school.  It was sixth
grade, and I was still looking for a sport to plug into after track &
field didn't really pan out.  I was on the team for about three weeks,
and to my surprise the coach made us spend half of each practice just
running laps around the gym.  I ran more during my three weeks of
basketball practice then I ever did in my full school year of track.
I remember in practice our coach was teaching us about how to shoot
the ball.  "It's a formula, like in math," he said.  "You may happen
to get it right some times, but if you're guessing, then there's no
point.  You have to be able to shoot the same way every time."

I guess I never learned the formula.  I feel like I missed every shot
I took at the community center, but Rodney didn't really care.  He
just wanted me to pick him up and hold him close to the hoop.  You
have to wonder if that's a legal basketball move.

When we were done shooting hoops, Rodney and I walked over to glass
nickel for some lunch.  I felt like a beer, and Rodney and I were
sweaty from playing basketball in the muggy weather.  We sat down in
our usual table in the back, and Rodney quietly colored.  Taking a
toddler out to lunch is a funny experience.  Rodney just
unapologetically does his own thing, and you can try to interject with
some simple questions and small talk, but before long you're just
having lunch by yourself.  "Oh, taking him out to lunch sucks,"
Marissa joked later that night.  "I try to talk to him, but he just
does his own thing and before you know it you're just on your phone."
And I did bide the time with my phone.  While Rodney colored, I caught
up on the Chicago Bears gossip in preparation for Monday's game.  At
least when the pizza arrived we had something to talk about.  "Tasty
pizza!" said Rodney, twirling a long strand of mozzarella at the end
of his fork.

After lunch, we picked up some groceries from the market.  Rodney was
pretty upset that I didn't let him pick out a small pumpkin.  Jenny
Street market has them lined up all around the store, and the last two
times I let Rod grab a pumpkin to put decoratively in our living room.
And apparently, two times is enough to throw a small fit when it
doesn't happen.  But he got over it, probably because he was tired.

When we got home, Rodney took a long nap and I got dinner going.  I
was making beef braised in red wine again, and that recipe is always a
great excuse to drink Red wine in the middle of the day.  I poured a
glass and caught up on YouTube videos.

The rest of the evening was nice.  Marissa got home before dinner, we
ate, put Rodney to bed, then I edited together a time lapse for
Marissa's instagram while she worked in the resin lab.  I sat in the
resin tent with her, which was nice and toasty since she set up a
small space heater to help the paintings cure.

We ended the night with a movie.  Marissa's pick was /Dan in Real
Life/, which was a real breathe of fresh air after sitting through
/Hitch/ for three days.  I was beginning to wonder if /every/ movie
made ten years ago sucked, and I was too young to realize it.  Not the
case.  The simpler explanation is usually the better explanation, and
the simplest explanation is that /Hitch/ sucks.

In a few moments, I'll shower, then we'll get ready for church.  We
have some errands to run, but other than that I'm not sure what I'm
going to do all day.  I'm equally interested in focusing on something
productive, or just putzing around all day in the kitchen.

Hope you have a wonderful day today, and thanks for reading.

*** 2019-09-23 Monday kubernetes, ottomans, stickers, and birthdays

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope you're feeling good this morning and
ready to start another work week.  The weather is beautiful today.  It
looks like up by us, we should be hanging out in the low seventies &
high sixties all week.  I might even finally get to bust out some cozy
sweaters.  Which would be a good thing about now - I went a little
crazy with the snacking last night, and this morning I get the feeling
that my stomach enters the room before I do.  I also had a bit too
much beer.  I decided to treat myself to a six pack of imported
Oktoberfest beer from the liquor store, and I really liked the taste
and decided to keep the party rolling.  But nothing that a little
coffee and journaling can't fix.

Yesterday I spent most of the day hacking on my chores website.  I'm
deploying it on a little kubernetes cluster I've made with some old
raspberry pi's I no longer need.  Because the newer models come out so
frequently and the specs basically double with each new model, I
wanted to give the computers a nice, productive place to retire.  I've
even named the cluster "the farm", just to round off the metaphor.  At
the moment, it's just two nodes, but as soon as I upgrade my desktop
to the Pi 4, I'll be able to add a third node.

Even though Kubernetes has been around for a while, I'm still pretty
new to everything.  The project has been moving a little slowly for
that reason, but it's important work.  With whatever is going on in
tech, I've noticed that new skills and knowledge don't really stick
with me until I incorporate it into a home project.  I've been wanting
to step up my kubernetes know-how for a while, and I'm grateful that I
finally have the time and a good project for it.  Last night I finally
got everything stable.  The database is up and running, saving data to
a persistent disk, and there's a web server that fires up a django
app.  Lastly, there's a proxy that - at the moment - just kicks all
requests to the web server.

In between all the hacking yesterday, we went to church, grabbed lunch
at Chipotle, ran some errands, and at an impulse we bought a new
ottoman.  We pulled it right off the shelf at target and dropped it on
top of the cart, like we were barbarians pillaging a conquered
village.  Our old ottoman had loose wooden legs, and we were getting
frustrated with how small it was.  Sunday naps are serious business,
and if you don't have enough ottoman space for the whole family, then
you should consider getting a bigger one too.

After we put Rodney to bed, Marissa and I hung out on the porch for a
while.  There was a sticker price tag from hobby lobby that had fallen
on the ground during some schlepping, and for some reason Ziggy became
obsessed with it.  She was fearful at first, stalking this sticker on
the ground and sheepishly craning her neck to sniff it, then she'd
jump back, bobbing her head like an MMA fighter.  She spent about
fifteen minutes doing this.  She was scared of it, but you could tell
that she wanted to conquer her fear and see what this sticker was all
about, which was endearing, and great entertainment for a quiet night
on the porch.  Ziggy did eventually get over her fear - so much so
that she ate the sticker, and we had to intervene, pulling it out of
her mouth and hiding it from sight.  Dogs are weird, aren't they?

After time on the porch, I did some more editing for Marissa.  I've
got a bit of a video editing backlog, so I'm also trying to chip away
at it and keep her fans happy.  Last night to my disappointment,
Instagram took down the first version because of the music, so all
that time I spent lining up the camera cut with the beat drop in Frank
Ocean's [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJqhgU1WQb8][Mitsubishi Sony]] was wasted.  The footage still looked great
though.  If you watch the time lapse on her Instagram, please play the
song in the background - it was a great pick and I'm bummed it didn't
slip by.

Today should be a regular week.  Tonight, the Bears are playing the
Redskins, and this Sunday I'm turning 29, so Birthday shenanigans will
likely take place this weekend.  As of now, I still don't have any
ideas for how to celebrate, other than just hanging out, drinking some
beer, and maybe cooking an elaborate dinner.  So in other words,
nothing that separates it from a regular late summer weekend.  I'll
keep racking my brain though.  I'm sure the family would like to do
something fun, and you only turn 29 once in your life.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today, and a great rest of the
week.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-09-24 Tuesday bears, code, and bean

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How are you feeling today?  I'm feeling
pretty good.  The cool mornings make it a little easier to wake up.
These days when I let the dogs out first thing in the morning, I don't
mind waiting on the deck without any shoes on.  The morning chill is
kind of exhilarating.

Yesterday was a great day.  I worked, heated up some leftovers for
lunch, then went for a long walk in the afternoon.  After work,
Marissa, Rod, and I went to Hy-Vee.  We made Philly cheese steaks, and
finished eating just before the 7:15 kickoff.  

The Bears played the Redskins yesterday, and I have some thoughts
about the game.  First off, Trubisky looked really good out there.
It's no secret that our offense sucks, but I hope last night's game
put to rest the notion that it's Trubisky's fault.  I think he looked
a lot more natural out there last night, especially when he was
scrambling out of the pocket.  I know everyone says he needs to work
on planting his feet and being calm after the snap, but I personally
enjoy watching him make throws while on the run.  He's good at it, and
to all of you Trubisky naysayers, ask yourselves this - if he's such a
terrible quarterback, why isn't he throwing interceptions?  Sure, he's
kind of inaccurate when he throws for long, but you have to give him
credit.  He knows what he can do, and more importantly, what he can't
do.  I was pleased to seem him connect a few long passes - I think he
could use the stats and the confidence - but if we keep scoring
touchdowns with 5, 6, 7 yard passes, I'm not complaining.

What /was/ clear last night is that our offensive line needs to figure
things out.  Trubisky must have been sacked a dozen times last night,
and one of them almost resulted in a safety.  I think if a quarterback
keeps getting sacked, it probably has more to do with the coverage
than with the play calling or where the QB is standing.

The game as a whole was a bit of a roller coaster.  At first it was a
blowout, then we gave up a field goal.  Then we let the Redskins think
they were making a comeback for almost a quarter and a half.  I would
have liked to see us keep the pressure up and just beat them by 72-0
(which from what I read, was an actual score of a Redskins v Bears
game once), but I suppose it could have been worse.

During the game, I also hacked a bit on the chores website.  I came
across a blog post called "Think Before You Use NodePort", which to
sum up, was part of a really hacky solution I was getting ready to
slap together.  Thanks to the quick research win, I got the final
pieces together and deployed the little website at home.  I set up an
account for me and Marissa, then we entered our Tuesday chores.  I'm
looking forward to removing the sprawling "chores" section from my
notes.

After the game, Marissa and I chatted a bit on the couch, then
continued watching our movie of the week.  It was my pick, and I went
with /Mr. Bean's Holiday/, which is a pretty solid movie.  I didn't
have subtitles for the French dialog, but Marissa and I agreed that
that wasn't a deal breaker for a movie about Mr. Bean.  You could
easily figure out what the French characters were saying just watching
how Mr. Bean reacted to everything.

I forgot how good of a movie it was.  I'm impressed that despite
having lots of sketch material to work with, they didn't recycle any
of it.  Did you know Willem Defoe is in the movie too?  He plays a
pretty good angry, delusional movie director.  And the whole thing
comes together really nicely at the end.  Can you imagine?  A movie
about Mr. Bean screwing around in France on vacation actually hands a
touching, ironic ending.  Not to mention some great characters.  They
really went above and beyond with this one.

Today should just be a regular Tuesday.  I don't know what I'm going
to do today, or what I'm making for dinner, or what I'm going to do
after dinner.  I'll probably do some chores, then work on my lesson
plan for Kids Code this week.  I don't have a plan.  This morning I
feel like Mitch Trubisky, I'm scrambling out of the pocket, and I'm
going to try to make a throw on the run.

Have a great day readers.

*** 2019-09-25 Wednesday writing

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you are having a wonderful morning so
far, and I hope you have a chance to go outside before it gets muggy.
A few minutes ago, I was standing in the backyard, herding Zig-Zig
around.

I'm working from home this morning, meaning I can add an extra half
hour into the morning routine.  I'm beginning this entry at 7:30, and
as always I'm going to write for a half hour before jumping in the
shower.  I think I'm getting good at the morning journaling system.  A
few days ago, I passed up my previous record for days-in-a-row, and I
have all the intentions to keep the party going.  Although it occurred
to me yesterday that there might be a problem in the statistics I'm
publishing.  Those only pertain to journal entries I published - I
still have a few months of private entries that I'm ignoring.  I'm
still debating whether or not to incorporate those.  While the total
word count would shoot up, the average daily word count - the metric
I'm most proud of - would probably tank.  A lot of my entries in the
first few month of this experiment were only a few hundred words.
These days, I try to shoot for 700-800, and it always surprises me how
I get there.  Some mornings the words come easy.  I'll have a good
story, or a salient observation, and before I know it I'm pushing 800
words and I'm five minutes over time, then winding things down poses a
challenge.  Some mornings I feel stuck staring at an empty emacs
buffer, and even though I should have started writing five minutes
ago, I just don't know what to say.  Tragically, I'll sometimes write
a paragraph, then grow kind of tired of it and delete it altogether.

Writing is messy, isn't it?  I wish it were as easy as it looks in the
movies.  Each morning would probably start with a music montage of me
typing, and by the time the song was over the camera would pan out
from my completed journal entry on the screen to me leaning back in my
chair drinking coffee.  Then I'd dramatically power off the computer
and exit the camera shot.  Smash cut to me sandwiched between to
fellow commuters on the bus, then another smash cut to me walking to
work on the square.  The square isn't that busy in the morning, so
we'd have to fill it with movie extras to make it appear like a
bustling metropolis that never sleeps.  Our city of Madison flies in
the face of that - some days I think it goes to bed early and even
sleeps in on the weekends.

I don't remember where I was going with that.  Ah now I do - writing
is /messy/.  It feels like wrestling, arguing, and maybe even a little
like fighting a bully.  It feels like wringing out a sponge of words
through a filter of what I'm allowed to say, what would be interesting
to say, and what I actually want to say.

It gets exciting when you write yourself into a corner, and you have
no choice but to write your way out.  For example, even though I came
prepared with a small list of topics like "groceries", "cleaning", and
"pop music", at this point I pretty much have to throw the list out
and commit to writing an entire entry about writing.  And that's
great, because honestly I think I write about the mundane day-to-day
things just to keep the engine warm.  Writing is probably the most
fulfilling when you accidentally find yourself processing something
completely new - when you have a brand new thought as you're typing it
out.  You obviously can't count on that happening.  And I just deleted
the list, I think it's safe to say we're in the end game now, and we
just need to wrap this baby up.

This felt good, and this morning I learned that I don't take enough
time to feel grateful for the writing process.  I fall into the habit
of understating its importance in my life.  I don't need to make
excuses for writing.  Journaling isn't just a cute way to get primed
for the day or a means of keeping your friends and family up to date.
I admit that I do it because I enjoy writing, and I want to get better
at it.  And I want to get to the point where I write about something
completely new every day - not just new to you, but to me as well.

Thanks for reading, and I hope you have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-09-26 Thursday sleep, naps, chores, and stats

Dear Journal,

Oof.  I'm having a lot of trouble waking up this morning.  I rolled
over to shut off my 6:30 alarm clock and it was somehow already 6:45.
I think my brain made an unconscious compromise to sleep for an extra
fifteen minutes.  I don't know how that happened, but it sounds like a
dangerous game.  This morning I feel like I could easily sleep until
10AM right in this chair in our dining room if I just shut my eyes.
Or I could just trudge over to the living room couch, and I'm sure
before my head hit the pillow Zig Zig would be right there with me
ready to power nap the morning away.

I'm hanging in there.  I'm drinking coffee.  I'm warming up and I'm
slowly starting to feel human.  This Thursday morning I feel like I'm
heading into battle.  It's going to be a busy one today.  I have a
handful of things to wrap up at work, and over lunch today I need to
put together a lesson plan for KidsCode.  After work, we're going to
chow down on some leftovers, then it's over to KidsCode until 7:30.
I'll walk back home, but my things away, then I'll ensconce myself in
a blanket on the couch and nap for as long as it takes.  Lately one of
my favorite ways to take naps is by falling asleep to the [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSjZrxiRD-Q][Peaceful
Cuisine]] channel.  Tonight I think I'll cue up a long playlist of
relaxing vegan recipes that I'll be blissfully unaware of.  Man,
that's going to be a good nap.

Yesterday I worked from home all day, taking a break to walk to walk
to Glass Nickel with Marissa and Rod.  We had a quick lunch, walked
back, then I had a few meetings to attend in between chipping on some
code.  After work, I took a quick power nap on the couch (just a
quick one - not the deep, luxurious Thursday evening naps that I'm
fantasizing about), then took Rod to Hy-Vee.  When we got home, Rod
and I put the groceries away and then I started on dinner.  Lunch
wasn't sitting well with us, so we all agreed we needed something on
the blander side.  I seared some chicken thighs in cast iron, baked a
few potatoes, and sliced of a loaf of bread.

After dinner, we put Rod to bed, then I hung out in the kitchen for a
while and slowly finished all my Wednesday night chores.  The kitchen
needed some love - I still had some dirty dishes hanging around from
Tuesday night's spaghetti and the stove needed a good cleaning.  Ah,
which reminds me - I have a great tip for cleaning the stove.  If you
turn the oven on for about twenty minutes beforehand, it heats up the
metal a bit and makes it easier to wipe up the grease.  It doesn't
need to be a lot of heat - I just turn the oven to 350F and clean
something else while I wait.

I continued cleaning the kitchen until about 10:30.  Marissa was still
finishing up in the studio, so I sat town at the dining room computer
and worked on some code.  I'm beefing up the statistics generator for
my blog.  This new version that I'm working on goes pretty deep.  Last
night I wrote the code to calculate the longest "droughts" - or days
without blogging.  It's exciting when you finally get the math right
and suddenly you recognize the data that spits out of the program.
For those of you wondering, the longest drought was from June 6th to
June 18th of this year, and it lasted for 11 days.  I'm pretty sure
that was while Marissa and I were in Vancouver.  Hopefully when I'm
done with this code, you'll be able to see this info on the homepage
and even click on these dates to read the posts from around that time.

That's my time.  Time to mount up and bravely ride into Thursday.
Today, I'm going to be focused, thorough, and efficient, and when I
finally walk in the house at 7:30 when it's all done, I'm going to
take the world's most triumphant nap.  You should do the same - it's
been a long week, and you probably deserve a nap too.

*** 2019-09-27 Friday kidscode, tacobell, and contentment

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Friday.  This morning it's dark outside.
Kind of eerie, kind of cozy.  The ominous clouds and cool air are
pretty cool to wake up to.

Yesterday was a busy day.  If you do them right, Thursdays should be
busy.  It's really the gauntlet you have to run before the weekend.
In the morning I wrapped up some code I was working on and shoved it
out to our staging environment.  I grabbed a chicken wrap from a food
cart, then hung out on the seventh floor while I made a lesson plan
for kids code.  I riffed on some educational stuff about phishing
attacks, then put together a little tutorial for building your own
nefarious login page.  I went for a short walk around the square, then
I did some more research stuff for a project we're starting next week.
By four o'clock, I had finished a pretty dense & productive work day,
but it wasn't over yet.  I jumped on a bus and got home around five,
having about a half hour to hang around the house before I had to
leave to set up for Kids Code.  Marissa was working on a painting
outside, so we sat together on the deck.  I grabbed a bag of kettle
corn to tide me over until dinner.  We caught up, I got Rod up from
his nap, then I trotted over to the library to set up.

Our Kids Code session went really well.  We had a great turnout, and
even though nobody worked on the /DIY phishing scam/ I planned, we
still had a great time working on scratch games.  In hindsight, young
kids probably don't come across phishing scams as often.  It occurred
to me that kids don't have any credit cards, and if you don't have any
credit, there's no reason for a scammer to be interested.  On top of
that, spam filters are generally pretty advanced now.  Back when I
first got an email, all that stuff used to actually make it to my
inbox, and I had to read the message and determine for myself if it
was from a scammer.  All in all, the kids probably had no idea what I
was talking about.

As we were packing up, I got a notification from my phone that an
event called "Take a Nap" was starting in ten minutes.  I chuckled,
remembering how tired I was when I made the event that morning.  Funny
story, I didn't actually take a nap.  I was pretty wired from the busy
day, so instead I walked to taco bell to pick up a late dinner, then
ate it on the couch with the dogs and watched YouTube videos.
Sometimes "me time" is just as relaxing as a nap, if not even more
relaxing.  For me, taco bell especially is the ultimate indulgence.
Eating taco bell is completely unconscious.  Chewing the hot cheese
and buttery tortilla just empties my brain, and it turns into this
weird, gluttonous form of meditation.

Side note: if you're wondering, the correct way to eat taco bell is to
let it get cold in the fridge, then microwave it in the wrapper until
it's pretty much melted into itself.  It's like a completely different
meal.

After eating, I grabbed my laptop and hacked a bit on my website code.
I finished breaking out some of the statistics.  Word count now
accounts for both public & private posts, as do "streaks" and "dry
spells".  But now that all the data is there, I think it looks too
busy, and sometime this weekend I'm probably going to move things
around again.

So back to here.  Friday morning, sitting in the dark drinking a now
cold cup of coffee.  Right now, I'm feeling pretty content.  This
weekend is just a lot of hanging out, relaxing, coding, cooking, and
I'm going to go out on a limb and assume I'm getting one or two neat
birthday presents this weekend.  I think it's going to be a good
weekend.  Ah, and next week is wedding week!  My little sister is
getting married.  All that rigamarole begins for us on Thursday, so I
even get a shorter work week out of it too.

Hope you all have a wonderful Friday, and a wonderful weekend.  Hope
you spend time relaxing, whether that's taking naps or eating taco
bell in front of the TV.  You do you.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-09-28 Saturday kanye, movies, and pictures

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Saturday.  Hope you're taking it slow
this morning.  The entry is a little late because I slept in, and I
also decided that making French toast was a bigger priority.  Now that
breakfast is out of the way, and Rodney is content watching Blue's
Clues on the couch, I'm free to write.

I also had to catch up on chores this morning - wiping down the
counters, starting another load of dishes, and cleaning up after
Friday night pizza.  All things that I normally do on Friday night,
but last night I got sucked into all the hype and drama leading up to
a new Kanye Album.  For the last few weeks, there have been rumors
floating around that he's getting ready to release a gospel album
called /Jesus Is King/.  He even tweeted a picture of the track list
and a date - 9/27.  I've been following Kanye for a while now, and
I've learned that only about half the albums that he announces
actually get released, and the name of the album usually changes a few
times too.  So last night I was counting on his release date falling
through.  Then, while browsing reddit, I noticed people freaking out
about a listening party in Detroit.  Despite the concert being very
closely monitored, a few leaks got out and once I heard them, I knew
it was the real deal.  Before I knew it, I was falling down the rabbit
hole, studying every piece of gossip that rolled out of Detroit's Fox
theater.  First, it was rumored to be released at 8PM... then 9PM (8PM
Chicago time)... then 11PM.  Soon, Kim announced on her Instagram that
the album was being pushed to Sunday.

So mission accomplished, Kanye West.  You've whipped me into a frenzy
over a fake release date, and now you have my close attention.  Hey,
at least the next alleged release date is on, of all days, my golden
birthday.  That's pretty cool.  And even if the album still doesn't
drop, how many people that you know can say "Kanye West ruined my
golden birthday"?  Not many I imagine.

Defeated and albumless, I packed up the pizza leftovers and joined
Marissa on the back porch.  We quietly listened to some Kanye and
chatted, talking about his past albums and where we thought this next
album was going to take him.  It actually got a little heated - Kanye
is one of those artists that digs into your personal life.  His albums
get wrapped up with your memories, and the music is almost seasoned
with what you were going through at that time in your life.  If you're
not careful, telling another Kanye fan "I disagree with how you feel
about that album" almost comes across as a personal jab.  That's the
mark of a good artist, right?

Marissa and I headed inside to watch a movie.  It was my pick, and I
went with the very under-appreciated gem [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7C8nHAAs70][Be Kind Rewind]].  I first saw
this movie in high school while spending the night at a friends house.
The marketing made it look like yet another silly Jack Black movie,
but it's actually a pretty thoughtful & touching flick about a town
trying to protect their legacy.  And if it helps, the movie is only
about 30% Jack Black.  Mos Def and Danny Glover are also a cool touch.
We had about a third left of the movie before we decided to turn in
for the night.

This morning, Rod and I are holding down the fort while Marissa and
the dogs head to Milwaukee for another agility trial.  She just left a
minute ago.  Beforehand, we snapped a few pictures of some very large,
beautiful paintings she's about to ship off.  I always imagine how
weird it must be seeing me, unshowered and greasy from cooking
breakfast, standing in the front yard taking pictures of a very put
together Marissa in front of her beautiful work.  It's probably quite
the contrast.  Anyway, she just took off, now it's just me and the Rod
man.  After journaling, I'm going to put his laundry away, then we're
going to shower up and walk to the grocery store, picking up lunch
along the way.  There's a bar in Atwood that allows dogs, and today
might be a good day to scope it out and pick up a bite to eat.  After
we get home, I'll probably put him down for a nap, get ready for
dinner, and then stay on this Kanye gossip.

Hope you all have a wonderful Saturday.

*** 2019-09-29 Sunday groceries, chicken, anger, and wine

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're having a wonderful day.  Here in
Madison, there's a chill outside, and it's pretty wet from the rain.

Yesterday, Rodney and I hung out while Marissa was at agility with the
dogs.  We hung around the house watching Blue's Clues all morning,
then ate some leftovers on the back porch.  Afterwards, we loaded up
his wagon and walked to the grocery store.  We bought a whole chicken,
as well as some veggies and a bottle of wine.  Lately Rodney does this
thing when we shop where he wanders off and comes back with a random
piece of fruit or vegetable, asking to buy it.  And since I'd feel too
guilty to say 'no', we always return with an interesting little
sampler.  Yesterday he wanted to buy some bell peppers, so I obliged.
I cut them into wide, flat slices and roasted them on the grill.

When we got home, I put Rodney down for a nap.  I salted the chicken
and got it into the fridge to dry, then I poured some wine and watched
youtube videos.  I could hear Rodney jumping around his room.  I caved
and let him take his Transformers toy (or as Rodney has come to call
it, /Green Guy/) to bed, and I think he was trying to make the most of
my lapse in judgment.  For about two hours, Rodney was jumping on his
bed and holding a conversation with Green Guy, throwing his voice of
course.

After Rodney woke up, I let him play outside while I started the
grill.  Dinner preparations went pretty smoothly until I noticed that
around 6:45 we still had like forty degrees to go on the chicken.  The
butcher at the market warned me that it was a bigger chicken, and I
probably should have heeded the warning and started it sooner.  But we
waited it out, and almost forty-five minutes later I was swearing
under my breath through smoke and greasy fire trying to sear the bird
and just get it to temperature.  In hindsight, I should have realized
that it's much easier to keep chicken warm than it is to keep the rest
of the meal warm while waiting for the chicken.

Dinner was kind of a flop.  The chicken was cooked, but way too salty,
and the rice was undercooked.  The only thing that really hit the mark
was the roasted bell peppers that Rodney picked out, so credit to him
for the idea.  The real success last night was keeping my anger under
control.  I have a bit of an anger problem, and I've been working on
it.  For some reason, one of my biggest triggers is when we end up
eating later than expected, and cooking a large piece of meat on the
grill, that's kind of bound to happen.  I snapped a plastic plate on
the side of the deck while the rest of the family was inside, and that
was the end of the outburst.

Trying to make me feel better, Marissa sheepishly added /[[https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/d0d661af-c5c5-4003-977c-e87ead6deb4e#HkMxIRdVCvr.copy][You know in
Spain, they often don't even start eating until midnight]]/ - which was
such a well-timed Office reference, it was a shame that I was too
grumpy to laugh.

We ate dinner and chatted about the day.  Marissa and Rodney wrapped
presents while I cooked, and they were proudly set out on the bar
counter.  I talked them into letting me open one of them.  Marissa and
Rodney got me a canvas printed picture to hang above my desk.  It's a
picture I took of our umbrella while I was sitting outside in the
rain, and looking at it takes me back to that moment and relaxes me.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed then sat outside by the fire under
a blanket.  We made exactly two s'more sandwiches, then went inside to
watch a movie.  We watched Blade Runner (the new one).  I worked on
the computer, and somewhere between finishing the bottle of wine and
getting lost in working on code, I completely forgot we were even
watching a movie.  As we were locking the house up for the night,
Marissa brought me up to speed with the plot in seemingly one giant
run-on sentence.  The movie was good - her version of it anyway.

In a few moments, I'll wake everyone up with a Dutch baby, then I'll
sit around the house and drink coffee all morning.  For lunch, the
family and I might go out to eat somewhere, then we're going to go
shopping at the grocery store to pick up something to make for game
day.

And today is my golden birthday.  I've never been one to make a big
deal out of my birthday, but I can't help but notice all the amazing
things that are happening on September 29th, 2019.  As I said on
Friday, a new Kanye album is dropping today.  The Bears are also
playing the Vikings today.  I think it's going to be a good day.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  It may not be your birthday, but
you can still lounge around and take it easy, as if it were.  Drink
coffee, sit outside under an umbrella in the rain, and don't worry
about making dinner on time.  After all, in Spain some people don't
even start eating until midnight.

*** 2019-09-30 Monday golden birthday

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're having a calm and collected
morning.  This is my first post as a twenty-nine year old, so if
everything went as planned, today's entry should feel just slightly
wiser than all the others.

Yesterday, I rolled out of bed after eight and got breakfast ready.
Letting everyone else sleep in, I was able to clean the kitchen, which
puts me in a great mood and primes me to relax.  When Marissa and
Rodney got up, I pulled the dutch baby out of the oven and we chatted
about our Birthday plans over breakfast.  As a treat, I also picked up
some hand-squeezed orange juice from the market, and we were breaking
it out for birthday brunch.  As we wrapped up eating, I read the
family's card and opened their gifts.  They did well this year, I'm a
happy man.  Marissa and Rod got me a very comfy Bears hoodie and a
lineup of new hot sauces.  Marissa laughed because the first two
bottles of hot sauce I opened were the least appealing of this year's
Hot Ones lineup, so I was relieved to find out there were more.  We
sampled some of them on taco chips.

After breakfast, Rodney and Marissa snuggled on the couch and watched
a movie.  I poured another cup of coffee and decided to sit outside.
It was cold & rainy, but relaxing.  I just drank coffee and stared up
through the wet umbrella at the grey sky.

I took a long birthday shower, then Marissa, Rod, and I mounted up and
went for a walk.  We stopped at a place that Rod and I eat at a lot in
Atwood.  In a bit of an oversight, we forgot to bring toys for Rod,
and they were pretty busy, so things got kind of interesting.  But we
managed, and before long we were venturing out toward the grocery
store to go shopping.  We picked up some bratwursts, chips, onions,
and some cheap beer.

We made the long trek home from Jenny Street.  Rod went down for a
nap, and I simmered the brats in beer and quartered onions before
setting them aside in the fridge for later.  I turned on the Bears
game.  Marissa was busy getting an art shipment together, but she
happily watched the game with me while she worked.

The game had an odd start.  Mitch Trubisky was injured early in the
first quarter and walked off field, being relieved by backup QB Chase
Daniel.  But before I could sit with my worry for very long, he scored
on the first drive.  It was a perplexing game.  Maybe Daniel was fired
up because this was the first time he was starting this season, but he
played amazingly well.  He was calm, accurate, and he made it look
like our offense was carrying the defense for once.  The Bears would
go on to beat the Vikings.  It was no surprise - we had a lot of luck
going for us.  It was my birthday, and was wearing my new Bears
hoodie - of course we won.

As the game winded down, I cooked dinner.  I seared the brats in
ripping hot olive oil before adding a bunch of chopped onions to the
party.  We ate dinner on the couch and watched the fourth quarter.

After the game, Marissa needed to go to Home Depot, and Rodney and I
tagged along.  Walking around Home Depot is a fun errand, and after
being cooped up watching the game all afternoon it felt to get out of
the house one last time.

After we got home, we decided to break out the dessert.  At Jenny
Street earlier that morning, we grabbed some desserts from the bakery.
We had a slice of chocolate cheese cake, a slice of berry mascarpone
cake, and a salted caramel pretzel and chocolate brownie.  Rod went to
bed, then I tidied up the kitchen and worked on some code on the
couch.  I spruced up my blog build scripts, and finally got it to the
point where it immediately posts to slack after a new entry.  It made
me happy finally getting to delete the crummy IFTTT integration that
would sometimes take hours to complete.

Marissa continued working on the shipment, and I packed the laptop
away for the night.  By the time she joined me on the couch, I decided
to make a mini hot sauce sampler with the new bottles I opened this
morning.  We carefully tried each sauce again.

We concluded the night by watching the rest of Blade Runner 2049.  I
was grateful that Marissa gave me a summary the night before - I would
have been totally lost otherwise.

I had a great birthday.  It was pretty much the perfect day, and I
felt loved, appreciated, and relaxed.  I've never made a big deal out
of my birthday, but it goes without saying that I'm grateful for the
people that do on my behalf.

The only birthday wish left unfulfilled was a new Kanye album.  The
album never dropped - Kanye, you ruined my golden birthday.  It's not
true, but it's fun to say.  I'm looking forward to the new album, but
sometimes waiting for a new Kanye album is just as fun as getting one.
All weekend I've been chuckling at the Internet drama, gossip, and
jokes surrounding this release.

I had a wonderful birthday, but I can't help but think about everyone
else out there who had a normal rainy late September weekend.  I hope
you got to relax too.

This morning I'm working from home in the morning, then heading into
the office after lunch.  I have a short week ahead - after Wednesday
the family will be in wedding mode, so that leaves us with three days
to get things in order before hitting the road.

Let's have a Monday!  Here's to hot sauce, the Bears, birthdays and
weddings!  Oh, and if any of you happen to run into Kanye West, let
him know that he ruined my golden birthday.

** 2019-10 October

*** 2019-10-01 Tuesday energy and bestbuy

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  I'm having one
of those mornings where I don't feel like I have a lot of energy.
It's probably just because it's been so dark in the mornings.  All
this time I thought I had been really nailing my morning routine, but
I'm starting to think that the bright summer sunlight was helping me
all along.  The winter mornings are the real stuff - the mornings
where you don't even see any sun until you're already on your way to
work.  That's the real test of the human spirit.

You can't really control how much energy you have, can you?  I feel
like I have seasons of my life where everything gives me energy.  I
get it from my job, from talking to people, and from cleaning things
around the house.  During one of these seasons, momentum comes so
easy.

Then I have seasons of my life where the energy doesn't come so easy.
My side projects start to bore me, my chores start to ware me down,
and my routines start to feel a little pointless.

It's OK.  I think that's just how life works.  If I can't control it,
then there's no point thinking about it.  I think the best way to deal
with these seasons of life is to just really try to take advantage of
the times you feel like accomplishing something with your free time.
I try to create good habits and routines so that when I get to a
season where waking up is hard and things feel a little tasteless, I
can just hold onto the rails and wait for the season to pass.

One of the toughest lessons that's precipitated from my own journey
into adulthood is that your time, attention, and energy are limited.
And we know that you can't really control how much energy you have.  I
think the best way to do things is to worry about where you allocate
your time and attention.  When you have energy, be grateful for it and
channel it into what you're doing, but I think it just runs out
sometimes and you just need to wait it out.

I'm already starting to feel the engine warm up.  Weirdly, I think
complaining about a lack of energy gave me some of it back.  This week
should be pretty fun - I'm on day 2 out of 3 work days before leaving
for Chicago for Sarah's wedding.  I'm feeling pretty healthy today.
Last night for dinner we ate some seared tilapia - just tilapia in
olive oil - no breading or anything like that.  Which wasn't so bad,
especially because I had lots of good hot sauce to choose from.

Last night I also finished retooling the script that publishes my
blog.  After I hit the button, everything immediately gets sent to
twitter and slack, and that makes me pretty happy.  Marissa and I also
crushed it with chores yesterday.

After dinner, we took Rod to Best Buy.  Marissa wanted to window shop
some chrome books, and we also wanted to kill time.  We were gauging
Rodney's interest in a gameboy.  This time, Marissa actually got him
interested in a game of Mario Kart.  Rod cackled loudly in the middle
of the quiet store every time she hit a banana peel.  He also likes
running around by the TVs.  He likes to hit the demo buttons and run
to the next one just as the obnoxious Bose audio demo starts to play.

When we got home, he went right to bed.  We had to forfeit the bedtime
story since we spent some extra time running around at best buy - but
that's OK.  After Rod went to bed, I caught up on chores, then Marissa
and I watched the movie /Sunshine/.  It feels good to have another
solid movie pick under my belt.  I'm still bothered that my first
choice in our new movie routine was /Hitch/.  I really bungled that
one.  In fact, Hitch was so bad, we find ourselves comparing every
movie we watch to Hitch, as if every movie we watch is just another
measure of how bad Hitch was.

I cannot stress this enough.  Hitch is a bad movie.

That's my time.  Kind of a lopsided journal entry today, isn't it?
That's OK, it worked out.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Think
about where your time and attention are going, but don't stress about
your energy.  You can't control that.

*** 2019-10-02 Wednesday coffee, hotsauce, kale, cables, and frosties

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  As you're reading this, I hope you are warm,
dry, and drinking a good cup of coffee.  This morning my coffee maker
is acting a little weird.  Of the 12 cups of water I added, only about
4 cups made it into the pot.  And at this point I'm kind of frustrated
and I'm asking the universe out loud how many different things can go
wrong with a simple drip coffee maker.  At this rate I'm going to end
up buying one of these stupid things every month.  /Sip/.  At least it
tastes OK.  Maybe a little strong.  Perhaps this whole debacle is just
operator error.  If I accidentally brewed some /super coffee/, we'll
know by the end of the entry if I start going off the rails.

Yesterday was a great day.  I had a quiet morning, spending most of
the day working on something difficult.  The project I took this week
sounded easy, but yesterday I discovered all this hidden complexity,
and had a weirdly fun time mentally piecing it together.  I went for a
quick walk, got stuck in a downpour, then ate lunch at my desk.  I
brought leftover tilapia mixed with baked beans spiced up with an
excess of pineapple habenero hot sauce.  It ended up being one of my
favorite lunches.  The tilapia toughened up just a bit in the fridge,
almost like chicken breast, so it held up really well chopped up in
the baked beans.  And good hot sauce is always a treat.  I would like
to start cooking with hot sauce more.

I had a few more meetings in the afternoon.  We met with our Secure
team neighbors about some Amazon account strategy stuff, and
throughout the meeting we dabbed the pineapple habanero hot sauce on
little crackers.

I took the bus home, and as I walked up our driveway, Marissa and
Rodney greeted me on the front step.  Sometimes when I come home
Rodney is playing in the yard, or they're both drawing on the driveway
with sidewalk chalk, and it warms my heart.  Today they were just
angrily swatting mosquitos, and after a quick hello hug we darted
inside to avoid the late fall bug spawn from yesterday's rain.

Rodney and I jumped in the car and drove to Hy-Vee.  I had a full
dinner planned, and I wanted to shave off as many minutes as possible.
We made a quick lap around the store, picking up everything we needed
to make saucijzenbroodjes, with a side of red potatoes and carrots.  I
also decided to throw some kale and bacon into the mix.  Hy-Vee was
out of garlic yesterday, which is something I have never seen before.
I had to buy the "special garlic" that is packed into gourmet tiny
boxes.  Opening it at home, I felt like I was unboxing a special
computer part, but inside was just a single underwhelming stubby head
of garlic.

I love it when a recipe just clicks.  I mixed and chilled the ground
beef, tossed the red potatoes in oil and arranged them on a baking
sheet, threw the carrots in a pan with butter, and slowly starting
rendering the chopped bacon on a skillet.  I've done kale and bacon
before, but this time, armed with the carbonara knowledge, I started
with a cold skillet to render out more of the fat.  I added the kale
and allowed about ten minutes for the steam to leave, then the leaves
started to darken and lower into the skillet, wicking up the bacon
fat.  I was so entranced watching the kale transform that I almost
forgot about the rest of the meal.

We ate dinner and chatted about the day.  Marissa had taken Rodney and
the dogs to agility practice, and Rodney had another great potty
training day.  Marissa gave Rodney a bath while I put his laundry
away, then we put him to bed.  Before bedtime, I made the mistake of
letting Rodney read the story.  Oh, he'll very sweetly ask if he can
read to you, but he really just rifts with the book open in his lap,
trying to get some final laughs out of you before bedtime.  It's like
toddler stand-up comedy.

Rodney went to bed, then I went upstairs to set up my new computer I
bought with my birthday money.  It's a new raspberry pi, and I
splurged on the 4GB model, but in a total oversight, I forgot that
this model had switched from HDMI to micro HDMI and didn't have the
needed cable on-hand.  I decided to take the car to Best Buy.  As I
was heading out the door, Marisa meekly asked me to pick up a frosty
from Wendy's on the way back, and who could turn that down?  I braved
the heavy rain all the way down East Washington only to find that Best
Buy was closed, but I still picked up Wendy's.

Marissa and I ate our frosties on the couch and watched some YouTube
videos, then I got up to start another round of dishes and wipe down
the kitchen.  Marissa cleaned the stairs.  We reconvened at 11:15 to
start a movie.  Marissa picked /Fantastic Mr. Fox/, and it sucked us
in immediately.  As we watched the movie, the dogs wrestled on the
carpet, almost like they were competing with the movie for our
attention.

This morning, I'm enjoying this concentrated cup of super coffee while
getting in the mood to dive back into work.  I'm working from home
today.  Marissa will take the dogs to agility practice in a bit, then
as long as the rain holds off, we'll walk to Glass Nickel for Lunch.
This is my last work day before a long wedding filled weekend, and to
celebrate I think I'm going to make a deep dish pizza tonight.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Remember, always start bacon in
a cold pan, Best Buy closes at 9PM on weekdays, if you drive to
Wendy's at night during a flash flood warning, drive slowly.  Thanks
for reading, and have a great Wednesday.

*** 2019-10-03 Thursday cars, tomatoes, movies, and weddings

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're having a wonderful Thursday
morning.  The cold, rainy weather is a great excuse to hid in a pair
of headphones under your favorite hoodie.  That's probably what I'd be
doing today if I were at work, but I have the next two days off.
We're driving to Chicago for Auntie Sarah's (and Uncle Phillip's)
wedding.  In a few moments I'll wake everyone up, we'll start packing,
and we hope to hit the rode by noon.  I love car trips, don't you?
Driving in the rain is less than ideal, but if you bring some good
music and good coffee, car trips are a great time to talk and relax.

Yesterday I worked from home, but I still had a pretty busy day
wrapping up and documenting my week's project.  At the end of the day,
we had a little meeting with the whole team where I walked through my
notes.  In the end I finally got things working, and I was grateful
for that.  It's always better ending a work week on a high note.
After work, Rod, Marissa, and I drove to Hy-Vee to pick up some
supplies to make a deep dish pizza.  We got the usual corn meal for
the dough, raw Italian sausage, and marinara, but I also picked up a
can of /San Marzano/ tomatoes.  Chef John talked about how special
these are on his channel, and the first time I saw them in Hy-Vee I
did a double take.  I cooked the red sauce using the whole can,
letting it simmer down for almost an hour and a half.  The tomatoes
were pretty magical, and absolutely lived up to their reputation.
I've never been too crazy about the way I make pizza sauce, so this is
a pretty big win.  Always happy to have another secret weapon in my
back pocket.

While waiting for the pizza to come out the oven, Rod was in a silly
mood.  He was "sneaking" around the house with his flashlight,
alternating between me and Marissa.  He's peak his head into the room,
then while hunched over with knees bent, he'd take these weird springy
steps into the room leading with his tiny LED flashlight.  Then he'd
turn around, head upstairs, and do the same thing to Marissa.  He did
this at least three times while the pizza was in the oven.

After eating dinner, we let Rod pack some toys for the trip, then I
put him down for bed.  Marissa got to work assembling her new gallery
desk, and I cleaned the kitchen.  We had a lot of food in the fridge
that was getting close to expiring, so while cleaning I sliced
bananas, baked some potatoes, and prepared a few more leftovers to eat
before hitting the road.

Ah, speaking of cleaning.  I happened upon a great cleaning tip last
night.  I've always wondered about the best way to dispose of a really
chunky red sauce - like the one I made last night for the pizza.  Last
night it occurred to me to pour the sauce through a strainer, rinsing
with plenty of water.  If you keep it under hot water for about five
minutes, soon the entire sauce coalesces into this little puck of
tomato meat and spices, and then you can just flip it into the garbage
can like a pancake.  Meanwhile, your drain and drain catcher are
completely clean, since the strainer was doing all the work.  I was
pretty proud of myself for coming up with that one.

After cleaning the kitchen, Marissa and I reconvened on the couch to
finish watching Fantastic Mr. Fox.  I brought some potato chips and
little bit of hot sauce.  It was cold and rainy pretty much all day,
and I it felt good to warm my throat with something spicy.

After we finished Fantastic Mr. Fox, we kept the party rolling and
started watching Blackkklansman, which is one of the first movie picks
we've had which neither of us have seen.  We're about half way
through, so far it's a pretty cool & interesting cop movie.

Hope you have a great day today.  For some of you, I'll see you at my
sister's wedding.  For everyone else, stay dry out there.  Be sure to
have your favorite hoodie and your favorite bottle of hot sauce on
hand.

*** 2019-10-04 Friday wedding 1

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! This morning I’m coming to you from my parents’
house in Geneva Illinois. Outside there are clear skies, and there’s a
cozy chill in the air that’s crept its way indoors. I’ve got my
favorite zip up on, a hot cup of coffee, and it’s time to write.

Yesterday morning was a highly coordinated family packing scenario. I
woke up about forty-five minutes ahead of everyone else - just enough
time to drink coffee, shake the sleep off, and write a journal
entry. I went upstairs and got Rodney out of his room. We made some
scrambled eggs, and shortly after Marissa joined us at the table. We
used the last few moments of breakfast to make a packing list, then
the packing & grooming frenzy began. Along with packing ourselves, we
had to pack Rodney, the dogs, and a lunch to eat on the way. I jumped
on the opportunity to evacuate all of our leftovers out of the fridge
and into a cooler. There’s nothing worse than coming home to spoiled
food in your fridge, right? It was a true victory lap of everything
we’ve eaten that week. We had sliced honey crisp apples,
saucijzenbroodjes, roasted red potatoes, a slice of deep dish pizza,
and a fist full of paw patrol fruit snacks.

We all hit the road at 11:30 AM on the dot. Our first stop was
Target. I needed a plain white dress shirt, and Marissa wanted to get
Rodney some special train toys to make this weekend a little more
special for Rodney.

We dropped the dogs off at the kennel around 1. Ollie, as usual, was
pretty fine about it, but Zig Zig surprised us with a little last
minute ambivalence. She tried to hide in Marissa’s lap, which really
broke our heart. Zig Zig has always been so head strong and quick to
throw herself into new experiences, and it was likewise heart-warming
and heart-breaking to see her wear her mixed feelings on her
sleeve. Last night as I was falling asleep, I thought about the dogs,
and I wondered if Zig Zig was also lying awake thinking about us too.

We made it to my parents’ house at 3, giving us a nice comfortable
hour to unpack, get dressed, and even sneak in a pre-rehearsal
beer. Rodney shocked us all with… um… a pretty explosive surprise that
was the result of drinking too much apple juice in the car. As Marissa
and I were tended to him, I remarked that as far as diaper changes go,
this was the quadruple bypass equivalent - and I stand by
that. Marissa had the intensity of a trauma surgeon, and I may as well
have been a nurse dabbing her forehead with one of those little
operating room sponges.

After the biohazards were contained, we drove behind my parents to
College church for the rehearsal, which was quite literally a drive
down memory lane. Marissa and I had a lot of fun slowly remembering
the landmarks around downtown Wheaton and campus. We had a good laugh
pointing out all of our old make-out spots.

After getting to the church, Rodney saw Alice across the chapel and
yelled her name. The two grabbed each other’s hands, and at last the
partners in crime were reunited. During the rehearsal, Jeremy and I
watched the younglings. Rodney shared his crayons, and Alice shared
her graham crackers. Rodney was also particularly chatty during the
rehearsal. Every five minutes or so, he would interrupt the pastor
with an exuberant GOOD JOB MAMA, accompanied by Rodney’s trademark
thumbs up, of course.

After the rehearsal, we made our way to the Oster house for
dinner. The food was delicious - that was about all I remembered from
the fog of trying to get Rodney to eat while also making sure he
didn’t break anything. I trust you’ll keep this between just the two
of us, reader - but we had a close call with a dinner napkin and a
candle stick. But all is well that ends well.

This morning, I’m having my fill of coffee, and I might sneak a bite
of this vanilla cake that’s sitting on the counter in front of me. In
a few minutes, I’ll get Marissa and Rodney up. Marissa has bridesmaid
things to do, but as far as Rodney and I are concerned, we’re going to
go out to breakfast with grandpa.

It’s a great day to get married, isn’t it? Remember to pack extra
diapers, watch the apple juice intake, and if all goes well, let’s
have a wedding!

*** 2019-10-05 Saturday wedding 2

Dear Journal,

Good afternoon everyone!  Sorry the entry is a little late today.
Last night my little sister got married, and this morning I had a
choice: write a short journal entry with a terrible hangover, or wait
a few hours and write a thoughtful entry with a slightly less terrible
hangover.  I went with the latter.  Our family just got home a little
over an hour ago.  We left everything in the car and proceeded to eat
Culver's, sleep, and catch up on our long snuggle backlog with Ollie
and Zig Zig.

Yesterday morning, my dad treated Rodney and I to breakfast at a
nearby diner.  I ordered Rod the Mickey Mouse pancakes off the kids
menu, but you have to wonder if he was jealous of my Philly cheese
steak skillet.  After breakfast, we returned to my parents house.  As
we were walking through the garage, Rodney acknowledged my dad's small
green mini motorcycle, and after very little convincing, got Grandpa
to start the engine and coast up the driveway while carrying him on
his lap.  After some more fiddling in the driveway, we headed inside.

Marissa and my mom had already left to go have lunch at the Oster
house, and having plenty of time before we needed to join the rest of
the wedding, the three of us guys just hung around the house.  I knew
Rod was going to have a trying day wearing a suit, sitting through a
ceremony, and staying up late, so I did my best to let him decide how
we spent the time.  I drank a beer as Rod and I lazily kicked a soccer
ball around the backyard.  There's a golf course in their backyard,
and it was actually pretty entertaining to watch the different types
of athletes that would play through.  After Rodney had enough, we made
our way inside and quietly watched TV.

Finally the time came, and we needed to get ready for the wedding.
It's a lot of pressure getting a kid ready for big events alone, not
having your spouse around to check your work and validate everything.
I gave Rodney a rinse in the shower, put on his suit, and packed my
backpack with everything that could possibly interest and comfort a
three year old throughout an all day wedding.  I was relieved that
Rodney didn't mind the suit.  After suffering through so many
pre-church meltdowns, I had assumed that anything that wasn't a
t-shirt was worthy of a fit.  But mysteriously, Rodney was fine with
the button down dress shirt, vest, and a clip on tie.  He may have
even enjoyed feeling dapper for a change.

We drove to the church, my dad navigating the chaotic twists and turns
of Geneva, me reviewing the itinerary on my phone, and Rodney babbling
about things he could see out the window.  As we got closer to College
church, we could see the bridesmaids in their blue dresses shuffling
around on the Wheaton College lawn, posing for pictures.  We parked,
and Rodney and I spent some time wandering around the church while my
dad set up his guitar.  I was wearing my suit, but I still needed to
track down one of the groomsmen for my tie.  I felt a little strange
walking around in a crisp blue suit with my dress shirt casually
unbuttoned, like a magician killing time before a private show.

We met up with Marissa, and after I finished getting dressed, we
decided to use up the last half hour to go for a little walk around
our old campus.  Marissa and I were both surprised at how natural it
felt to be back at Wheaton, and luckily it was homecoming weekend, so
we didn't look very out of place wandering around with a toddler.  For
a moment, as we were walking the steps down from the cafeteria into
the student center, it felt like we were college kids lazily checking
our mailboxes, wandering around campus, and killing time before
evening plans.  Wheaton College is one of the only places on earth
where I knew Marissa before she my wife.  I forget that she used to
just be my girlfriend.  Walking around campus with her took me to a
time where the only thing I knew about her was that she was pretty,
and that she agreed to date me.

We made our way back to the church.  The doors would be opening in a
few minutes, and I had to take my position as one of the ushers.  As I
stood by the door and waited, I did my best to mentally prepare to be
very friendly and outgoing.  From every other introvert I've talked
to, I think we all have this common phobia sticky social situations,
like calling someone by the wrong name, not recognizing someone that
that you've known for a really long time, or mistaking someone's
gender.  I mean, everybody hates those moments, but I think introverts
are extra sensitive, lacking the social finesse to slip out of them.
Our only defense mechanism is preparation.  In my head, a ran through
names, reviewed the seating, and silently rehearsed my wording.

Before the wedding started, I saw my little sister Sarah.  She was
play fighting with Rodney, who brought a light up Styrofoam sword.
She looked beautiful.  You can only talk about your sister's wedding
for so long before you need to fall onto a cliché, but let's just say
that the version of Sarah that exists in my childhood memories -
playing video games and making goofy home videos - compared to the
version of Sarah that was waiting in that church - beautiful,
talented, funny, and thoughtful - was a powerful contrast that makes
me weepy-eyed just thinking about it.

The doors opened, and the gentle violin music was soon drowned out by
people gathering in the foyer.  Ian and I sat everyone on time, and
out of all the people I hugged and greeted, I only had one forgiveable
/faux pax/.  When my parents' friend and finance guy arrived, I didn't
recognize him and asked /bride or groom?/, and from the puzzled look
on his face I suddenly got the sense that I should have already known
the answer.  Moments earlier, I had convinced myself that playing it
off like sarcasm, as if I was just asking to be funny, was a good back
up plan.  It was not a good backup plan.  Nate graciously reminded me
that we've met a few times, and he admitted he only partially
recognized me.  What a class act, huh?

Once the ceremony began, my final wedding task was to make sure Rodney
made it down the aisle.  I wasn't sure how he'd do.  Sometimes Rodney
likes attention, and other times he detests it.  Luckily, on Sarah's
wedding day he liked it.  As we walked after his flower girl cousin,
he gingerly waved to the crowd and smirked.

The rest of the ceremony was beautiful.  Sadly, I don't have any word
pictures for you.  I confess that I spent most of the time trying to
keep Rodney from losing his mind.  Rodney, Alice, and Frankie sat in a
row together with me and Jeremy on the outside, and I think we did an
admirable job containing the chaos of crumbling graham crackers, toy
sharing disputes, and crayons rolling on the floor.  I laughed with
Jeremy later about how everything that happens while you're watching a
toddler feels like an anxious blur.

After the ceremony, Marissa and I made our way to the car and sat in
the parking lot for a few minutes.  Rod was getting burnt out, and we
wanted him to fall asleep so he'd have enough energy to get through
dinner.  He ended up having plenty of time to sleep.  It took me a
little over a hour to make the twenty minute drive.  Even though I
grew up and learned to drive in Chicago, apparently I'm still not
savvy enough to improvise around its closed roads, construction, and
rush hour traffic.  I pulled up the front door, letting Marissa run
into the country club barefoot just in time to begin the reception.

Rodney struggled through the first half of the reception.  The plan
was to keep him there until midnight and hope he'd fall asleep in the
corner, but after falling out of his booster seat and being too scared
to dance, Marissa made the call to take him home early.  She told me
later that that he was visibly relieved to be driving home with mom in
his pajamas, and he fell asleep immediately.  I stayed behind.  I had
so much fun catching up with people from my past life, especially now
that I was treated more like a peer.  One thing I've noticed about my
late twenties is that adults finally start to treat you like one of
their own.  Or maybe it's because when you hang out with someone you
haven't seen in years, you have no choice but to just start over and
get to know each other again from scratch.  While I was catching up
with a friend that used to be a church junior high leader of mine, she
was telling Marissa about the first time I went to summer camp as a
freshman to help out with junior high.  I stepped off the bus and
greeted her /Hello, colleague/, as if the teacher/student relationship
we had was completely turned on its head now that I wasn't attending
camp as a student.  Weirdly enough, that smart-ass comment I made in
high school was truer now than ever.  Friends' parents, parents'
friends, and former church leaders alike were all my /colleagues/ now.

Sarah was whisked off to Hawaii by my gallant new brother in-law, and
the night that followed is a blurry tale of dancing, tequila, cigars,
and late night white castle.  Looking back on the weekend, social
/faux paxs/, exhausted toddlers, and piercing hangovers are such a
small part of Sarah's big day.  I have remind myself to step back and
appreciate what this day meant for my little sister.  Sarah, your
wedding was beautiful and I'm so happy for you.  Phillip, welcome to
the family.  To the both of you, remember as much as you can - because
time is relative, and it moves fast when your heart is full.

As for me, I have a car to unpack and probably three loads of laundry
to do.  Later we'll order a pizza, but I'll lay off the tequila this
evening.  For some reason that doesn't sound good to me right now.
Thanks for reading, colleagues.  I'll see you at the next wedding.

*** 2019-10-06 Sunday unpacking and movies

Dear Journal,

Good morning readers!  I just let the dogs out, fed them, and caught
up on dishes.  As I was unlocking the baby gate up stairs, from the
corner of my eye through Rodney's cracked door, I could see him
lunging back into bed, as if he was doing something wrong playing with
books.  Marissa and I have told him a bunch of times that now that
he's in the big boy bed, he's allowed to get up and play quietly, but
he still feels the need to sneak around I guess.

Yesterday we hit the road sometime in the late morning, getting home
around one.  The rest of the day was pretty lazy.  We let Rodney watch
TV on the couch, Marissa napped, and I slowly chipped away at
unpacking the car.  I expected to get a surge of motivation and finish
it all, but it never came, and I still have probably 30% of the way to
go.  Sometime around 10:15, I came to the realization that it wasn't
happening the same night, and I instead joined Marissa on the couch to
finish watching our movie pick /Blackkklansman/.  As we watched the
last third, I assembled my new raspberry pi case, which will replace
my journaling computer once my micro-HDMI cable arrives by mail.

Blackkklansman was a good movie.  I had listened to a podcast about
this story, so I was a little biased.  Mostly, the movie stuck to the
facts.  And I don't mind a little creative liberty for the sake of
fitting something into a movie, but I think all the things Spike Lee
added didn't really add much to it.  Also, he went a little overboard
on the racist dialog.  For example, there were a lot of ten-to-fifteen
minute long monologues from the various klansman characters peppered
with probably the most racist dialog you could imagine, and as the
camera is sitting still or just slowly zooming in during the delivery,
it got a little too intense.  I guess if the goal was to make me
uncomfortable, he succeeded.

Despite being over the top at times, the movie was also insanely cool
at times.  There were a lot of cool throwbacks to the genre of 70s
buddy cop films, and the music was undeniably delicious.  There was a
moment where the main character was walking through a wheat field in a
leather jacket while this slow electric guitar was playing, and I
think I wouldn't mind if that played on for several more minutes.

After watching /Blackkklansman/, we decided to start another movie
while I finished my beer.  Marissa picked the original /Blade Runner/
with Harrison Ford, and I'm embarrassed to admit that I don't think
I've seen it.  Neither has Marissa, and in retrospect it may have been
good to have watched this one before the new one.  I was a little
rusty on /Blade Runner/ lore and had forgotten what "replicants" were
and what it meant to "retire them".  "For a movie made in the 80s,
this looks really amazing," remarked Marissa and we both marveled at
the dazzling special effects and scenery.  As the movie opened with
Harrison Ford getting arrested at a noodle bar, I remarked "you ever
notice that every good sci-fi movie begins with a regular guy getting
hauled off somewhere while he's trying to eat?"  The other example I
had in mind was in /Hitch Hiker's Guide/ when Arthur is still wearing
his bath robe when Ford helps him escape earth as it's getting
demolished.

I can hear Rod opening and closing the drawers under his bed.  Those
drawers are usually pretty empty.  One of them just has his pair of
spider-man slippers, but for some reason he feels the need to
rearrange things.  In a few moments, I'll head up to his room and put
away his laundry, then the plan is to take him to Jenny Street.  We're
going to buy things to make breakfast and lunch.  The Bears play today
at noon, and it would be nice to have everything I need to make
breakfast, lunch, and dinner.  Today is a good day to get back on the
cooking wagon.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Bear down, and I'll see you
all Monday morning.

*** 2019-10-07 Monday cooking, bears, caterpillars, and code

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Monday to you.  This morning I feel like
I'm coming out of a haze of relaxation, so we must have done a good
job winding down from the wedding on Friday.  Yesterday Marissa and I
finished unpacking the car and putting everything away, and we had
plenty of time to get some other regular weekend things done.

Yesterday morning, I got Rod up around 9 and we went to the grocery
store.  We haven't been in the kitchen all weekend, so I was planning
kind of a comeback day.  We picked up some bacon, lemons, and
everything needed to make dinner.  When we got home, he helped me put
the groceries away, and he watched cartoons while I fried some bacon
and made a Dutch baby.

I cleaned up breakfast and finished emptying the car, knowing I'd
probably be glued to the TV starting at noon for the Bear's game.
Marisa left around noon with the dogs to go to an agility trial, and
Rod and I hung around and watched the game.  The Bears played in
London yesterday, and what was cool is that even though this was
technically a home game for the Raiders, Bears fans outnumbered
Raiders fans 10 to 1.  But judging by the game, the turnout didn't
influence how they played.  Our boys played like crap, then they
played well, then they played like crap again and we lost by three
points.

I guess it could have been worse.  Going into the second half, spirits
were low and things were starting to look like a blowout.  But we
rallied, and for one quarter we came back and took the lead, but we
gave up a touchdown late in the 4th quarter and that was pretty much
our death sentence.  As we head into a bye week, I hope Nagy and the
team use the extra time bring back a little discipline to our line.
Hey at least we'll have Mitch back.  We'll see what happens.

As the game was finishing up, I made peposa and a caprisi salad while
Rod played outside.  He has some days where he's totally content
playing by himself, and other days he feels the need to show and tell
me about everything as its happening.  Yesterday while making dinner,
he was really into this caterpillar he found crawling on the deck.  He
would run into the kitchen with a great sense of urgency asking me to
come help him with something, then by the time I got my shoes on and
walked outside with him (leaving two or three things on a lit stove
mind you), it turned out to be a weird request, like he wanted me to
play his toy recorder in front of the caterpillar while he shined a
flashlight on it - like it was some kind of weird ritual.  Of course I
obliged him - purely out of respect for his made-up toddler ritual.  I
think it was some kind of ancient toddler blessing.

Sip.  The coffee is good today.  Yesterday at the grocery store I
splurged on Collectivo coffee, and I also ran cleaning solution
through our coffee maker yesterday.  So the combination of fresh,
quality beans running through a freshly de-calcified coffee pot is
really doing the job this morning.

Ah, I got to work on some side projects yesterday.  Last night I was
hacking on the chores website.  One night with Marissa's help, it
occurred to me that logins on a private website were silly, and last
night I finally got the time to rip all the authentication out.  And
while I was under the hood, I also decided to move the data to my NAS,
and clean up a number of other bugs, and I guess in the process I
committed the cardinal programming sin of changing too much too
quickly, and I had to abandon things in a broken state around 11:15
PM.  In the meantime, we're just using the honor system, but I'm
looking forward to getting that working again.

Marissa and I picked up watching Blade Runner, the original.  I'm
sorry but the movie is a lot slower than I remember.  It's had it's
moments obviously, but somehow we still have over an hour to go and
it's starting to feel like a chore.  Not as much of a chore to watch
as /Hitch/ was.  Have I told you about how terrible the movie /Hitch/
is?

This week I'm on ticket duty at work, so again gearing up to be very
helpful and outgoing all week.  I'm also on call, so I'll be hanging
around the house in the evenings with my work laptop close by.  It
will be a good week to catch up on tech projects.  I have the changes
to our chores website to rollout, then with Marissa's help I'm going
to redo the mini upstairs datacenter with the new parts I got for my
birthday.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Keep your head down, eat
good food, and before you know it, it will be the weekend again.

*** 2019-10-08 Tuesday oversleeping, frustration, soup, giraffes, and chores

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone.  On this drippy, cold day I hope you have
something warm to wear, and a nice hot cup of coffee to sip on.  This
morning I overslept, sitting up in bed at 7:00 AM - a full twenty to
thirty minutes after I usually get up.  That added lots of variety to
this morning.  As I briskly made my way down the stairs to let the
dogs out and get them their breakfast, I rearranged my morning in my
head and concluded it wouldn't be so bad.  And it's not bad, so long
as I don't spend too much time writing.  Normally going five minutes
over just means I have five fewer minutes to get ready, but today it
will mean five fewer minutes to catch my bus, which is a lot harder to
do.  But I'm here now.  My backpack is packed for work, I've got my
shoes on, and I'm going to see how much of this delicious coffee I can
drink before I need to fly out the door to the next adventure.

Yesterday's theme was "frustration".  Work started out well enough,
but something in my JIRA permissions got screwed up and I needed to
wait for IT to fix it.  I did as much work as I could, but that small
thing kept me from getting a production change out yesterday, and I'll
have to find time for it today.

I guess "frustration" is a little dramatic.  I still got plenty of
work done.  My Monday morning =Today= list is always the biggest, and
yesterday I killed it.  I caught up on work reading, worked through
the morning, then over lunch I caught up on emails and educated myself
on how to make chicken wild rice soup.

For lunch I heated up some leftover /peposa/.  And because "what are
you eating" is a pretty common question when I heat up that heavenly
piece of meat and fill the break room with smells of peppercorns and
garlic, I've discovered it's a lot easier to say "Italian chuck roast"
then to explain what /peposa/ is.  It also makes me sound a lot less
like a foodie jagwad.

After work, I caught the bus home and found Marissa and Rodney raking
the leaves.  From what I hear, they had a pretty action packed day
that took them to the zoo, out to lunch at Portillo's, running errands
at Home Depot, and outside to clean up the yard.  Rod was actually
having so much fun with her that he was dragging his feet to get in
the car to go to Hy-Vee with me, despite being promised free bread.
And when a toddler drags their feet, it's in the very literal sense.
He refused to walk, and his feet limply dragged on the ground as I
carried him over to his car seat.

Rodney eventually got into it, and soon we were at Hy-Vee picking up
what we needed to make for soup.  As Rod got in a better mood, I got
in a worse mood.  Hy-Vee was having one of those days where they were
out of everything, understaffed, and inexplicably busy on a early
weekday evening.  They were out of garlic, fresh bread, and heavy
cream.  The heavy cream particularly set me off because peering
through the empty fridge, I could see a whole box of it sitting on a
pellet.  If I didn't have Rodney with me, I could have seen myself
just playing dumb and wandering back there to get it.  There's the
theme of the day again - /frustration/.

The frustration continued at the checkout line.  Their card reader was
acting up, and the guy in front of me had a pretty bizarre shopping
payload stuffed into a single basket.  It was one of those shopping
trips where you stand in line for twice the time it took you to find
everything.  When it was my turn, the exhausted cashier asked "did you
find everything OK?".  For a second I thought about listing the things
that they were out of, but I was afraid of sounding like a tool.

Rodney and I head home, and I started cooking the soup.  I was excited
to try my remixed version of the chicken wild rice soup.  I sweat some
onions and garlic in my dutch oven with nutmeg and cumin, then added
chicken stock and sliced chicken thighs, allowing it to simmer for
about twenty minutes before sneaking in a box of instant wild rice.
In another saucepan, I melted a stick of butter and added a half cup
of floor, whisking it together into a roux.  Slowly, I whipped in the
half and half.  Once the rice had a few minutes to cook, I added the
cream & roux to the dutch oven and mixed.  At this point, I thought we
were in trouble, because there were some clumps floating around, but I
did my best Chef John impression and kept my composure.  He would have
said "Don't lose hope.  Just cover it and don't touch it for fifteen
minutes.  Hey that's just you cooking."

The soup turned out really well, and was a welcomed ending to a
frustrating day.  As we ate, Rod and Marissa talked about their trip
to the zoo and all the animals they saw.  Rod even brought his toy
giraffe along, and I could only imagine his excitement when he was
able to parade it around the real giraffes.  "What a giraffe party it
was", recounted Marissa.

After we put Rod to bed, Marissa worked on frames in her shop and I
hacked on the hub.  Last night I finally fixed the data volume issue.
The website is now happily reading and writing data to and from my
NAS, and I fixed a number of bugs under the hood as well.  I added our
chores back in, and out of excitement I even added a few extra to fill
up Thursday evening and Saturday morning - respectively, straightening
up the deck and cleaning out the car.

At 11, Marissa and I met on the couch to watch a little more of /Blade
Runner/.  It was really bumming us out, but it got pretty good last
night.  We have about twenty minutes to go.

So that's my day.  In a few moments, I'll slug the rest of this coffee
and run outside to catch the bus.  I haven't looked at my work
schedule yet, but to the best of my knowledge it will feel like a
Tuesday.  I'm going to get my change out into production, then pick
another task and do my best to destroy it.

Hope you have a great day today, reader.  I don't have time to
proofread this, so typos be damned.

*** 2019-10-09 Wednesday locks, hutspot, neighbors, fences, and bladerunner

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're feeling refreshed this morning.
I'm getting there.  Yesterday was great, except I had a twinge in my
shoulder all day.  This morning it's still there, but it feels a
little better.  Don't you just hate it when that happens?  By all
accounts, sleeping on my back with my arms at my side on a travel
pillow rolled under my neck is the ideal way for a human body to lie
still for an entire night.  I can't even imagine what went wrong.
It's a mystery to me.  I still sleep with arm braces at night to keep
my elbow straight.  It was really tricky to figure out how tightly to
fasten them.  There were a few weeks where I'd wake up every morning
and both of my arms were completely asleep.  And you can't have that.

OK - one more digression before I jump into the day.  When I was
little, I used to think that my arms and digits falling asleep was
completely unique to me, and I thought they it an early sign of
developing super powers.  I used to watch this show on TV called [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DAORNCSkGc][The
Secret World of Alex Mack]] which was about this teen girl whom, as a
result of getting splashed by chemicals in an accident, could morph
into a liquid blob and shoot electricity out of her finger tips.  One
morning I remember sitting up in bed with a tingly arm, and I spent a
few minutes holding it out in front of me trying to summon lightning.
There was no lightening.  "Must still be developing," I thought.
Morphing into liquid goo was also an appealing concept to me when I
was a child.  Between me and my sisters, locking each other out of our
rooms when we were mad was a big power play.  The locks had a spring
inside that could be opened with a little pin that we kept in the
bathroom closet, but you could still keep the lock flush with the
doorknob on the other side of the door to keep that from working.  Ah,
but if I could morph into liquid, I could just seep underneath the
crack in the door and re-associate as a solid on the other side.  The
ultimate trump card.

Back to our regularly scheduled journal entry.  Yesterday was a swell
day.  I'm on ticket duty this week, so I spent a lot of time bouncing
between things and helping people.  Over lunch, I ate some leftover
chicken wild rice soup and worked on my blog.  If you haven't seen it,
you should check out my [[https://www.alexrecker.com][homepage]].  I finally managed to fit all the
previous blog posts on it in a way that didn't seem cluttered.  For a
while I convinced myself that it was just too much information for
anyone to be interested in, but the second it was available I myself
spent a good five or ten minutes browsing old journal entries and
reading what I was up to at different times of the year.  Anyway, I'm
pretty happy with this setup.  The next blog item I was planning on
was going back and declassifying as many private posts as I can.

After lunch, I had a few meetings, then I jumped on the bus to head
home for the day.  As the #15 bus bumped along East Wash, I
frantically googled around for convincing hutspot recipes.  I was
convinced the recipe wasn't going to work - boiling potatoes is great,
but adding the same weight of carrots and onions sounded a little
obtuse, and I just couldn't imagine a pot full of carrots cooking as
quickly as potatoes, which made mashing them together at the end seem
impossible.  But I kept the faith, and before long I arrived home
ready to take Rodney to the store.  When I walked up the driveway, he
and Marissa were decorating the front steps with Halloween
decorations.  There were a few light up pumpkins, some spooky spider
webs, and a light up corgi dressed as a bumble bee, which Rodney
nicknamed /bumble bee puppy/.

After some toddler feet dragging, Rodney, giraffe, and I jumped in the
car.  I was relieved that Hy-Vee wasn't as busy as they were the
previous day.  The parking lot was mostly empty, and we would have had
an easier time moving through the aisles, but Rodney insisted on
riding his giraffe like a horse.  This was as far from a brisk gallop
as you could get, and more like a pensive trudge while dragging the
stuffed animal between his legs.  By the time we got to the meat
counter, I made him relieve giraffe to the shopping cart and walk next
to me.  We drove home with potatoes, carrots, onions, kale, and bacon.
Before I started cooking, I opened a box I got from amazon that had
Marissa and Rodney's Halloween costumes - suits from [[https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=3&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiDpq2qmo_lAhVCHqwKHaliBEkQFjACegQIABAB&url=https%253A%252F%252Fen.wikipedia.org%252Fwiki%252FSpider-Man%253A_Into_the_Spider-Verse&usg=AOvVaw1_0bqKwhrmvDmIKpBaUo26][Into the
Spider-Verse]].  Later while I was cooking I would catch Rodney sitting
on the couch wearing his black Spider-Man mask.

Marissa sat in the kitchen and chatted with me, helping me peel
carrots.  We quartered the potatoes, carrots, and onions, piling the
cuts up in the dutch oven and covering it with water.  I started the
stove, then prepared the bacon and kale.  The water came to a boil,
and I covered it.  "I just don't see how this is going to work out -
tonight might be a pizza night," I said covering the pot filled with
vegetables.  Thirty minutes later, I removed the lid and sampled a
carrot.  Through the magic of dutch cooking (yet again), it was soft,
sweet, and somehow took on a completely new flavor while just sitting
in a pot of simmering water.  I drained the vegetables, then mashed
them.  The bright orange carrots melted into the pale potatoes,
turning the mixture into this soft pastel light orange color,
sweetened by the yellow onions.  Just before calling everyone down for
dinner, I heated up some leftover chuck steak - which wasn't a cop
out, hutspot is apparently supposed to be served with braised beef.
We ate dinner, and the first few minutes were silent while we studied
the new recipe.

As Marissa was giving Rodney a bath, there was a knock on the door
from our nextdoor neighbor.  I let the dogs out the back, then joined
her on the porch.  I don't want to use my journal to air dirty laundry
because this is a happy place for me, but it got pretty
confrontational.  We've had an ongoing property line dispute.  Luckily
this time we didn't have much to argue about, since Marissa and I are
finally just getting a surveyor out to lay down the line once and for
all.  As a naive first time homeowner, the idea that someone could
disagree about where our yard and their yard met seemed silly to me,
and shelling out a few hundred dollars to get an official decision
from the city seemed even sillier, but after spending some time on
google, I was comforted to learn that property line disputes are
pretty common, and one of the big reasons why surveying your yard and
using a mediator are such a straightforward process.  In hindsight, a
few hundred dollars seems like a small price to pay to never have to
talk to my neighbor about that damn property line again.

She seemed pleased that a surveyor was coming, and she agreed to
respect the outcome, then walked off in a huff.  I left to clean the
kitchen, gritting my teeth as I washed dishes.  One tough lesson that
I've learned through this whole thing is anger has a way of corroding
you over time, even if you're in the right.  I'm pretty sure my
neighbor is wrong about the property line.  In a few days, I'll be
able to prove it with a document, and she'll have to comply with it.
You would think that Marissa and I would feel relieved and a little
triumphant, but we've held onto this anger for so long that every
outcome of this dispute just tastes bitter.

Marissa clicked around on Home Depot's website, shopping for white
picket fences.  "Good fences make good neighbors," I remarked as
Marissa let out a tired chuckle.

After we had finished winding down, we sat on the couch and watched
the rest of Blade Runner.  Though it dragged at the beginning, it was
a delight to finally see that dramatic "tears in the rain" ending in
full context.

Today I'm working from home, hanging out with the Rodman in the
morning while Marissa goes to dog class.  In a few moments, I'll jump
in the shower, then get him out of bed.  Oh, and I forgot to mention
that today I'm writing the entry on my new computer.  I've upgraded to
a Raspberry Pi 4, and I splurged on the model with 4 GB of RAM.  Emacs
is a lot snappier on this computer, and it was a welcome upgrade.
Shout-out to my folks for the birthday gift card that made it happen.

Hope you have a great day today.  Remember, reader - good fences make
good neighbors, and there's no sense in trying to settle a property
dispute without a licensed surveyor.  That argument may as well be
tears in the rain.

*** 2019-10-10 Thursday outages, pizza, and bugs

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone.  This morning, it's dark, and chilly.  I sat
outside for a few minutes while Ziggy did her business.  Did you know
I have to let her out twice in the mornings?  The first time doesn't
count - she's usually too excited about her breakfast to give herself
enough time to poop, so after she eats, I take her out again for "take
#2".  This morning I sat on the porch for a few minutes.  Coffee was
still brewing anyway.

I just looked at the weather for today and sneered out loud.  It's
supposed to be a high of 72F.  I guess it could be worse, but my first
thought was bugs.  I think having one more nice day will mean at least
another week of mosquitos and fruit flies.  As I'm writing this entry,
I have a few fresh bites on my ankles.

Yesterday was a pretty rough day.  Two days ago on the way home,
someone posted a message in my team's channel that our secret store in
the staging environment may have been acting up.  The staging
environment is only used to do final testing on software before it
gets released for actual customers, so problems there are a lot more
low key.  I replied that I would look at it in the morning.

By morning, the issue had gotten a lot worse and pretty much everyone
was affected.  I snarkily reported in morning stand-up "today I have
to fix vault in staging, and I have a feeling it's going to take all
day."  What followed was a hellish day of shell commands, backups, and
war rooms.  It was one of those issues that I absolutely made worse
before it got better.  Somewhere in the middle of it, my coworker
kindly offered to relieve me for a few minutes around lunch time.  I
heated up some hutspot and quietly ate it at the table, then returned
to work upstairs until Rodney's doctor's appointment.

By 5:30 PM, we had finally restored the service.  It felt good to
actually fix something.  I'm still absolutely exhausted from working
on the same issue for an entire day, but it makes a really big
difference, morale wise, when the story has a happy ending.  I closed
my laptop and joined my family downstairs, who was napping on the
couch.

We decided to take the dogs to Ian's pizza.  My brain was pretty fried
from work, and a night off cooking sounded appealing.  I grabbed my
backpack, Marissa grabbed the dogs, and Rodney climbed into his car
stroller.

The walk to Ian's pizza is nice.  It's about twenty minutes, and it's
all on the bike path.  The sun was going down, and after a long walk
pizza was starting to sound really good.  We sat outside on their
patio.  I drank a beer.  But to our disgust, our meal was cut short by
mosquitos.  It's hard to describe how angry Marissa and I were that
mosquitos are still a thing in mid October.  Selfishly, I felt like I
had earned a long, lazy pizza dinner outside on the patio, and for a
second, I felt offended - maybe even disrespected.  And now that I'm
seeing these words on the screen, I feel kind of silly.  I kind of
sound like Jonah did in the Bible where he gets angry at God for
allowing a worm to eat the plant that was giving him shade.  Getting
mad at bugs is never a good look for a person.  They're just doing
their job, and you can't just expect to sit outside for hours and
enjoy a pizza at any time of the year.  This isn't California.

We walked back as darkness started to fall.  Ziggy was on high alert
with each bike whizzing by.  One of the things that amuses me about
bike culture in Madison is how everyone seemingly tries to upstage
each other when it comes to bike safety.  As if it's not enough to
wear a helmet.  People also stick bright LEDs on their bike, and they
flash like a concert strobe light.  And then on top of it they still
holler things like /ON YOUR LEFT/ as they pass you.

When we got home, I used my last puff of energy to clean the kitchen.
Our fridge was due for a good cleaning, and being mostly empty, I was
able to wipe it down pretty quickly.  I finished evening chores around
10, and after retreating under a blanket the next thing I remember was
waking up to Marissa coming into the living room around 11:20.  We
went to bed shortly after.

This morning I'm still struggling to find energy.  The coffee is
helping, but I'm having one of those mornings where I just keep
fantasizing about crawling back into bed.  I would probably fall
asleep in a few minutes, and I would wake up around 11, like how
Saturdays used to feel in college.

Today should be a pretty regular day.  I'm going to take the week off
of Kids Code to recuperate, and I'll use the extra time this evening
to take Rodney to the grocery store and make something good for
dinner.  Something warm and nourishing that will counteract all this
angry pizza crust and greasy pepperoni that is swimming around in my
head.

Hope you have a great day today.

*** 2019-10-11 Friday rob, rigatoni, troubleshooting, and apple

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  This is probably the best I've felt all week.
After Wednesdays afternoon's outage and Wednesday night's pizza binge
I was feeling pretty low energy.  I was also psyching myself into
believing that I was coming down with a cold.  But it appears that all
I needed was a good supper and a good night of sleep.  Do you ever get
paranoid when you suddenly remember how long it's been since you
gotten sick?  I treat getting sick like jury duty.  If it's been a
while, I start to get suspicious that it is about to happen.

Yesterday, I spent most of the day documenting Wednesday's outage.
Since it wasn't in an environment that impacted customers, no official
post mortem was needed, but my team thought it would be a good idea to
fill one out anyway just to show people that we weren't messing
around.

After I was done with the report, I went out to lunch with Rob.  We
sat on the patio of Argus, where the waitress greeted him by name.
Argus is clearly Rob's place, and he made it feel like a scene from
/Cheers/.  We ate some lunch, threw back a beer or two, and Rob let me
finish his fries.

I worked on some other stuff in the afternoon, then head home to find
Marissa and Rodney snuggling on the couch.  Marissa was taking a
well-deserved couch nap after cleaning a few of the house windows.
We're planning on doing the rest of them this weekend, but she wanted
to see what it would look like.  I immediately noticed the extra
sunlight pouring into the kitchen, and it made me feel proud and
happy.  I guess you shouldn't underestimate what good windows can do
to your mood.

I took Rodney to Hy-Vee.  Our fridge was pretty much empty, so we had
a big shopping trip ahead of us, but Rod was also in a good mood and
he was up for the challenge.  As we passed the snack food, he
sheepishly gestured to a box of M&M rice crispy treats, and after I
nodded in approval he happily lobbed them into the shopping cart.  I
let him eat one on the way home.  And with that treat, I hope he
realized how pliable I am when it comes to snack foods in turn for
helping me pick up groceries.  That's the whole appeal of grocery
shopping with your parents, isn't it?

For dinner, I fried some pancietta in olive oil at the bottom of my
Dutch oven.  We had some really nice looking lemons in the fridge, so
I couldn't resist zesting one of them into the mix.  I dumped in a can
of cheap red sauce, cooked it down, snuck in a tablespoon of butter,
then tossed in a whole box of rigatoni.  After letting all that /get
to know each other/, I folded in some parmesan cheese.  That's my goto
for making quick pasta on a weeknight, and for all intents and
purposes it's replaced the function of mac 'n cheese in our house.  As
we ate dinner, Rod and Marissa talked about their busy day working
outside.

After dinner, Marissa put Rod to bed so I'd have time to help a friend
set up her new iPad.  Over the phone exchanging plenty of screenshots
over texts, together we navigated the perils of iOS, finally adding a
new email account.  "IT WORKS THANK YOU," she replied in the test
email.  We were feeling pretty good about our success, then suddenly
almost out of jealousy for the new device, her iPhone started acting
up and suddenly she couldn't send emails from that device.  We tried
to work our magic, but around 10:45 we had to raise the white flag,
since there's only so much you can help with over the phone
(especially when it comes to troubleshooting that same phone).

As a long time IT guy, I'm aware of how exhausting it can be, even if
I'm the one helping you.  It still takes effort on your part to follow
my instructions, describe what you're seeing, and track with our
progress.  My philosophy is that there's nothing wrong with saying "I
appreciate the help, but let's take a break."  It helps to step away
from a problem, and sometimes they even fix themselves when we're not
paying attention.

I was disappointed in Apple.  Let's be honest, for people that don't
have the time to treat computers like a hobby, Apple is the /de facto/
choice.  I prefer Android - not because it's good - but because it's
cheap.  This leaves Apple with the unique responsibility of
shouldering the majority of the population - the people that don't
particularly enjoy using a computer.  There stuff has to be really
good, especially when it comes to common scenarios.  It's hard to
describe how frustrating it is to encounter a bug while helping
someone with a common use case.

I wise person once said "A computer is like an evil genie; it will
give you exactly what you ask for, even if it's not exactly what you
wanted."  Trying to configure an 2019 iPhone to read emails was a
funny introduction to our evening movie pick /Minority Report/.
Taking place in 2050, it has to hold first prize for /most
technologically optimistic/.  Tom Cruise busily ran from flying cars
to computers he controlled by waving his hands, and not once did I see
him log into iCloud.  If that's true, then we have 30 short years to
clean this up, Apple.

Happy Friday, and hope you have a wonderful day today.  Be careful
what you ask a computer to do, because it will do /exactly/ what you
asked.

*** 2019-10-12 Saturday beer, ribs, movies, and games

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Saturday.  It felt good to sleep in a
bit and wake up to the first day of the year that really felt like
fall.  We just finished breakfast, and my family is patiently waiting
for me to finish up a journal entry before we head outside to clean
the garage.  There's something about chilly fall days that make you
want to throw on a hoodie and work outside, and that's probably what
we're going to do.

Yesterday was a great day at work.  We spent most of the day
investigating some weird events in our service that happened the day
before, but I took a break to grab lunch with Rob and Josh at the Old
Fashioned.  Rob and I were grateful that had our favorite beer on tap.
The beer is called /spruce juice/, and it tastes like a tall cold
glass of George Clooney chopping firewood while wearing a sweater.  We
split a whole pitcher.  "It's cheaper that way," said Rob.  "We're
saving a whole three dollars."  "Not to mention the added camaraderie
of drinking out of the same vessel," I added.

When we got back, Zendesk was setting up for their national "Coming
Out Day" celebrations.  I picked up a rainbow sticker and rainbow pin,
and proudly donned it over my Bears hoodie.

While finishing up work, I got a message from Marissa saying that she
had to take our car in the shop.  It turned out to not be such a big
deal, but that meant that Friday night Sfincione was probably at risk,
since she normally starts the dough in the early afternoon.  To add to
that, she and Rodney were pretty exhausted from occupying themselves
at the Honda dealership for so long.  We decided to scrap a homemade
pizza this week and just order something when I got home.

I got home before Marissa and Rodney did.  I let the dogs out, then
crawled under the blanket.  We had forgotten to turn the heat on in
our house, so I wanted to enjoy the last few minutes of indoor mid
sixties climate that's just ideal for dog snuggles.

After Marissa and Rodney got home, we ordered Portillo's.  I ordered
ribs, and finished the whole slab.  That was probably the first time
I've finished an entire slab of their ribs since I was in gradeschool.
Food has a powerful way of activating memories, and wolfing down the
tender ribs slick with buttery barbecue sauce took me back to eating
out with my family after fall hockey games.

After I put Rodney to bed, Marissa and I settled in with some drinks
and snacks.  Last night the Breaking Bad movie /El Camino/ was
released, and we were pretty excited to take us all in.  We were
sucked in for two hours.  I probably shouldn't have had control of the
remote, because I kept pausing the movie every fifteen minutes.  The
movie made me so excited that I felt like I wanted to talk about it,
but half the time I didn't have anything to add.  I think the works of
Vince Gilligan have that effect on me, and that applies to the whole
movie as well.  I loved it, and I don't have anything to add or
expound upon.  It's probably better that way, I don't want to spoil
anything for you.  It was just absolutely perfect, and a wonderful way
to end the work week.

After the movie ended and we were finished reeling about it, Marissa
and I played some video games.  I set up Steam to work with the tv, so
we took turns playing Super Meatboy.  "I'm so bad at this game, I feel
like I should get my tattoo removed," joked Marissa.  She was
referring to our matching tattoos we have on our ankles, the one that
everyone teasingly refers to as our Spongebob tats.  She raises a good
question - how good to you have to be at a video game to be worthy of
getting it tattooed on your skin?  We certainly didn't think it
through that much at the time.

Like I said, today we're going to work outside.  Marissa and Rodney
are getting ready for the day, and once I publish this entry, we're
going to empty out the shed.  We're going to eat some leftovers for
lunch, then I'm going to take Rodney to the grocery store and pick up
some stuff to make deep dish pizza.  I think it's going to be a great
day.

Hope you have a great relaxing weekend.  Grab a hoodie, clean your
garage, eat pizza, and go watch /El Camino/.

*** 2019-10-13 Sunday sheds, pizza, and company

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're having a good Sunday so far.  I
just finished a wave of dishes, and the house is slowing waking up.
We're all eating breakfast at the table now.  You got to love later
church.  The extra time to get ready almost feels unbelievable.  As I
was laying in bed browsing reddit, I kept thinking "OK NOW I bet I'm
running late," but not even close.

Yesterday had a lot of action.  We had a big early breakfast, then
headed outside as a family to clean the shed.  It had been about a
year or so since we gutted it, and it actually wasn't as bad as we
thought it would be.  We took everything out, sorted it on the
driveway, threw the garbage in the car, then swept the shed.  The most
exotic things we came across were two dead field mice (one of them was
reduced to a little clump of hair) and a big rusty axe wedged high up
by the ceiling that must have been left there from the previous owner.
I was at first pretty excited to retrieve the axe thinking it may have
been left over from the twenties back when this was a farmhouse, but
flipping it over I found a price tag sticker on the handler.  What a
letdown.

We also found a few bags of concrete left from when we first built our
backyard fence.  I remember it was a soft powder when I slid it under
the shelf for storage, and now the bags were solid bricks.  Disposing
of them was a real chore - I had to break up the bags with a shovel
and scoop them into buckets.

Marissa drove all the garbage to the dump, and I finished tidying up
with Rodney.  When she got back, we put everything back in the shed.
There's nothing like the satisfaction of a clean shed.  I almost
wanted to leave the garage door open all day out of pride.

We went inside for some lunch.  I heated up leftover hutspot and
rigatoni.  After lunch I took Rod to the grocery store.  Later, Alex
and Cassie were coming over for dinner and I wanted to make some deep
dish pizzas.  Rod and I also swung by the liquor store to pick up a
bottle of tequila for Alex.

I put Rodney down for a nap, then started on making the pizza.  Being
unsatisfied with my deep dish dough last time, I decided to swap out
the olive oil in my recipe for melted butter.  The dough was much
caky-er, like a pie crust.  While waiting for the dough, I busied
myself with other things around the house, starting a load of wash and
tidying up the deck.  I was enjoying all the cleaning momentum from
doing the shed that morning, and I guess I wanted to keep the cleaning
party going.  When I got to a good stopping point, I joined Marissa
who was napping on the couch and played an hour of video games.

Rod was slowing waking up from his nap, and I went back into the
kitchen to make the sauce.  Deep dish sauce needs to be chunky, and
the best way to get there is by simmering the sauce for a few hours,
which also makes the sauce more concentrated and acidic, which can be
fixed by adding sugar.  Yesterday I made the realization that this is
probably why Chicago style red sauce tastes so sweet.

Before Alex and Cassie arrived, Marissa tidied up the house while I
made a salad.  Rodney and the dogs got really amped up for company,
and for about an hour the play corner felt like a dog & toddler
circus.

We had a wonderful time catching up with Alex and Cassie.  We ate
diner, put Rod to bed, shared stories, and drank some tequila.

After they left, Marissa and I finished Minority Report, which really
took a turn for the best.  "Basically, the movie got good after Colin
Farrell died," recounted Marissa.

Today, after church we're going to go grab some tacos for lunch, then
we're taking Rodney to a pumpkin patch.  I think with fall weather
this good, it might actually be a crime to /not/ carve a pumpkin at
home with your family.

Have a wonderful Sunday, everyone.

*** 2019-10-14 Monday tacos, orchards, nightmares, and steaks

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  It's another Monday, and another week.
Speaking of which, can I tell you about a recent lifestyle change I've
made?  I've switched all my calendars over to Monday being the first
day of the week.  I don't remember exactly how Sunday became the first
day of the week (especially since in the Bible that was the last day
of creation), but whatever the reason I'm sure I'm not helping or
hurting the cause with my own Google calendar settings.  I don't know
about you, but my day begins on Monday, right now.

So yesterday, despite Marissa and I having a wonderful day planned, it
sort of crashed and burned.  First after church we were planning on
going out to eat at Bel Air.  Bel Air is one of those restaurants that
is either /really/ good, or it's /really/ horrendously bad, and
yesterday it was bad.  Marissa and I got burritos, and they were wet,
cold in the middle, and Marissa found exactly four peas in hers, which
makes you wonder if they even meant to put peas in a burrito.  And who
puts peas on a burrito?  "It's like they made a Shepard's pie, then
suddenly remembered they were a taco place and corrected it last
minute," I joked.  I got the steak and eggs breakfast burrito, and it
too was underwhelming.  But at least Bel Air has those great free taco
chips, right?  They found a way to mess that up too.  I don't know if
this is a permanent change, but instead of the usual big basket of
warm chips, the waiter brought out a tiny cereal bowl that had only
handful of chips.  Rodney commandeered the first bowl for himself, and
I don't blame him.  The amount of chips the waiter set down at the
table were just about the amount that I would pour for Rodney at home,
except this was supposed to be for three people.  I really hope that's
not a permanent change.  The chips were one of the great things Bel
Air had going for it, and good chips can save an iffy dinner.

After lunch, we drove to the apple & pumpkin orchard.  Marissa had
read online that the place we were going to was one of the best.  We
were bundled up and looking forward to wandering around a pumpkin
patch, trying some apples, and just having the perfect cozy fall
experience.  We parked next to the sign, got out of the car, and apart
from a small building with some pumpkins set out on an indoor table,
we couldn't find anything.  Marissa asked someone where all the
animals were, and they directed us across the street to a small sheep
pen.  We wandered over, and indeed, there was just a small sheep pen.
Being completely unmanned, it felt a little strange bothering the
sheep, like we were trespassing on somebody's hobby farm and harassing
their animals.  At least one of the sheep was friendly enough to
wander over and hang out with Rodney.

We wandered across the street and back into the building to pick out
some apples.  They were out of honey crisps.  I'm no apple
connoisseur, but going by Marissa Honey Crisp apples were the main
reason she wanted to come.  We sampled some apple slices, bought a
pumpkin, and left.

On the way home, Marissa and I talked about the apple orchard in her
home town.  It was a big sprawling farm, there were hay bales for kids
to climb on, wooden cutouts to take pictures with, fruit samples and
animals galore, and a big pumpkin patch where you could wander around
and pick your favorite pumpkin right off the vine.  I think that's the
kind of place we were both expecting, and our disappointment was
mutual.  Rodney would have loved the orchard in Rochester.  I guess it
all wasn't a bust.  He got to pet a sheep, and he picked out a pumpkin
for carving later this week.

We returned home, and having already struck out with our lunch choice
and the orchard, it suddenly became one of those days where you had to
take a nap and just start over.  We put Rodney down, and Marissa and I
fell asleep on the couch letting the TV play quietly.  I woke up an
hour later to Rodney crying.  I think he had a nightmare, because he
was saying something about "momma" and "ghosts".  I asked him if he
wanted to go to the grocery store, and he quickly nodded.  "Sometimes
when you have a really weird nightmare, it helps to do something very
routine to shake it off," I explained.

He was eager to go shopping, so we took our time.  We walked around
the store taking in Hy-Vee's Halloween decorations, picking up some
steak, potatoes, and mushrooms.  As we went down the bread aisle to
find Mom's favorite blueberry bagels, Rodney excitedly yelled out
"DAD!  DANCING!"  I glanced up to find him indeed dancing.  Something
about that aisle puts him in a dancing mood I guess.  We spent a few
minutes spinning, waving our arms, and I tried to show him how to moon
walk.  Having a three year old is a great excuse to dance, and dancing
feels good.

We got home a little late, so I jumped on dinner.  I roasted some red
potatoes and made a mushroom stuffing.  I wanted to mash up some hard
boiled egg yolks into the stuffing, but I must have miscalculated how
hot the water was, and when it came time to peel the eggs, a beautiful
yellow egg yolk fell right out into the sink.  "So it looks like we're
skipping the eggs," I yelled from the kitchen.

I fried a steak on some cast iron.  It wasn't a perfect dinner, but at
least it was better then our lunch.  I have a feeling I paid just a
little too much for those steaks.  We ate dinner, then watched an
episode of Blippi on the couch before putting Rod to bed.  I cleaned
the kitchen and Marissa straightened up the basement.  About an hour
later, she proudly showed me her new basement wood-cutting corner.
It's been a pleasure to see her slowly conquer the basement.  The
section of "junk" has been slowly receding further into the corner,
like a melting iceberg.

We watched /We Bought A Zoo/.  In my book, that would be a perfect
movie if Matt Damon weren't in it.  "You know he's really not that
good looking," Marissa laughed while the movie was paused during a
close up of his face.

In about four minutes, my on-call shift ends.  This week, I'm hoping
to clean up my IT corner.  With Marissa's help, I'd like to install
some shelves and make a nice corner to display my fancy new kubernetes
cluster.

Have a great day everyone.  Be generous with taco chips, and grocery
shopping is a great way to shake off the nightmares.

*** 2019-10-15 Tuesday cookies, land, wisdom, and laughing

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  It's raining just a bit outside.  And judging
by my clock, the sun came up around 7:20?  I wasn't paying too close
attention.  I was too busy drinking coffee and watching Strongbad
emails, which is just a wonderful way to wake up for the day, and I
recommend you try it sometime.

I needed the extra ramp up time this morning.  Last night was a long
kitchen work binge of cleaning up from dinner and baking a batch of
French heart cookies.  It was my first night being off call in a week,
and lately I like to celebrate those by spending extra time in the
kitchen.

Baking is intense.  Making those cookies, I thought by now I'd figure
out some way to outsmart the recipe - like folding and cutting the
puff pastry in a way that allowed you to make the cookie with no
effort, but so far the best way I've found to make those little heart
cookies is to just battle it out.  If the hearts are too long, they
tip over in the oven and come out lopsided.  If they're too small,
they burn.  If they have too much sugar, they burn.  And sometimes,
worst of all if they come un-sticked they turn into these weird little
bean shapes and don't look very appetizing.  On top of that, the oven
needs to be around 450F, so the kitchen gets hot.  I usually handle
them with heat proof gloves and a pair of chopsticks.  I don't think
there is a trick to these cookies.  I think it's just patience &
practice - blood, sweat, and parchment paper.

Yesterday was a pretty hectic day.  Our surveyor finally made it out
yesterday to look at our yard, so last minute I had to work the
afternoon from home.  We were so eager to see the property line, it
took a lot of effort staying focused.  I joked with Marissa that I
just wanted to sit in a chair on the front lawn and watch him, but we
did our best to give him his space.  He put a few pins down, but had
to take everything back and run it through a computer to get the exact
property line.  Still, it's already not looking ideal.  The property
line evidently does run in a somewhat diagonal line from our house.
Definitely not as drastically as my neighbor claimed, but it's not an
untouchable victory for us.  I was feeling pretty down about it, but
after the work day sitting down at our dinner table, Marissa came to
my aid.  It's really special when people who are close to you blow you
away with wisdom.  Marissa drove the conversation, talking about how
we can't control everything and about how growing up is choosing the
more mature reaction in moments like this one.

Feeling a lot better about the whole thing, we all took a trip to the
grocery store.  Family grocery trips are great.  You would think that
with all the fun we have shopping together that the trips weren't very
efficient, but we actually get in and out of the store pretty quick,
since Marissa just entertains Rodney while I find the items we need,
and Marissa and Rodney conspire to get away with extra snacks too.
Among the usual weekday dinner paraphernalia, we scored some red
velvet cupcakes and a tiny pumpkin carving kit that Rodney wanted to
hold.

For dinner, we had some kale roasted in bacon, rice, and a baked sweet
potato.  I also cut up some cheese, just to remove any doubt that
there wasn't enough protein on everyone's plate.  That morning,
Marissa had asked for sweet potatoes as the secret ingredient, a lot
like they do in Iron Chef, and I had joked "what if I just made pasta
or stir-fry something and served an out of place sweet potato on the
side?"

Marissa gave Rodney a bath, then handed him over to me for the bedtime
story.  Rodney picked a book off his shelf that I didn't recognize,
and as I read this book with Rodney in his bed, it got stranger and
stranger with every page.  The book was about this mother who loved
her kid, no matter what.  The first page was very nice - the boy was
two, and every night she would crawl on her hands and knees into his
room and pick up the baby and sing to it.  But on every page, the baby
got older and the mom would still do that.  By the time I got to the
mother picking up the teenager I couldn't help but laugh, and by the
time I got to the page where the mother was driving to the "great big
man's house" to crawl into his room and pick that great big man up, I
was laughing quite a bit, and Marissa joined us in laughing on the
baby monitor.  The weirdness of the book was lost on Rodney, but I
think he appreciated the laughter.  I chucked the book on the floor
and we read from an old classic, /Bedtime with Blippi/.

I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa did some painting.  Around 10:30,
she made her way to the dining room to work a bit on the computer.  I
tempted her with the cookies that didn't turn out - the ones that
either broke in half or unfolded from cute little hearts into bean
shapes.  We reconvened sometime around 11 to finish watching /Matt
Damon Buys Some Animals/ as I have been calling it.  It was a decent
movie for the first hour, albeit Matt Damon's false modesty is a
little hard to sit through sometimes.  For the first hour of the movie
my teasing was met with scorn, but then the movie gets really stale
and drawn out, almost as if it refuses to end without spoon-feeding us
several extra platitudes.  "This was an hour long movie with an hour
long ending," I joked.  Marissa finally jumped on board.  It was past
midnight, we wanted to go to bed, but every time we expected the
credits to appear, Matt Damon launched into another nostalgic
monologue.  I paused and saw we still had 6 minutes left, and Marissa
and I burst into laughter knowing we still had that much filler
material to get through.

Well talking about all this got me in a good mood.  This morning I'm
working from home so I can talk to the surveyor.  I'll head into the
office around lunch.  We have a busy work week.  We have a team
presentation on Wednesday, a bunch of peer performance assessment
stuff to write, and since I'm off Friday I'm trying to wrap up all my
project work by Thursday.

Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday, and thanks for reading.

*** 2019-10-16 Wednesday surveying, stress, shyness, and hitler

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope your Wednesday is working out so far.
It's been such a hectic week.  Yesterday our surveyor finally put a
line down next to our house.  I stayed at home through the morning,
and by then I was already at work.  Marissa took plenty of pictures,
and did a really nice job drawing in lines to show the difference
between our version of the property line, my neighbor's version, and
the actual property line.  The verdict turned out to be pretty fair.
It was nothing to rub anyone's nose in, but after checking our
expectations and making sure we were trying to be objective, that
wasn't what we were looking for.  All in all, we're happy that it's
done with and final.  The surveyor spray-painted a thick red line that
connected four large wooden sticks, making it pretty unmistakable.

It was also a pretty busy day at work yesterday, making it challenging
to stay on track with everyone between working with the surveyor and
keeping our project on track.  Sometime last night while washing
dishes, I paused to vent about the week to Marissa, who was pressing
some paintings into wood at the dining room table.  "When is the next
regular day going to be for us?" I complained.  It's not like I have a
lot to complain about.  After all, I have a day off Friday to enjoy
some Hawks tickets that my wife surprised me with, who could complain
about that?  I guess I'm sensitive to weird weeks like this.  Having a
shorter work week most of the time doesn't mean less work in the week,
it just means a more condensed work week, and I'm feeling the burn.
Oh, and /feeling the burn/ wasn't a veiled democratic debate
reference.  I didn't have time to watch any of it.  If I have time
later, I'll see how many highlights I can stomach, but from what I
heard it was a bit of a circus.

/Sip/.  Man I feel all over the place this morning.  I didn't even
have time to put my laundry away, which just feels wrong.  I dug into
my clean clothes just enough to fish out a pair of underwear, like how
you used to do things in college.

Yesterday after work, Marissa and I agreed that we were pretty burnt
out from dealing with the property line, so we did something easy for
dinner.  We went to the recycling center as a family.  Rodney took in
the sights and the sounds while I helped Marissa overhand wood and
plastic into the appropriate dumpsters, then we went to Hy-Vee.  We
ate dinner in their little side restaurant, which has always been our
go-to for dealing with stressful days.  There's something about
drinking a beer in a hidden corner of the grocery store, looking out
over a forgotten corner of the parking lot.  It feels like nobody is
going to bother you, and you're free to just soak in the alone time
for as long as you want before doing your shopping.

Marissa and Rodney split a plate of orange chicken and some fried
rice. I had a little set of tempura shrimp sushi.  It's dirt cheap,
especially when the bartender decides to extend happy hour by a few
minutes, only charging me two bucks for a tall, cold pint of
Hoppalicious.  As we ate, we chatted more about the experience of
getting a surveyor.

Today will be a pretty action packed day.  I'm trying to wrap up a
project sometime today, I have just a few more peer reviews to write,
and our we have a presentation to give to a visiting VP.  After work,
we have a company happy hour thing.  The craziness of this week has me
feeling a little shy, but Marissa is rightfully encouraging me to go
and be social, and has graciously agreed to pinch hit for making
dinner tonight.  I think she said something about her buffalo chicken
casserole.  That actually sounds pretty good right now, especially
given how many good hot sauces we have on the shelf right now.

To wrap up the night, we watched an hour of my movie pick, /The Great
Dictator/.  It's an old movie from the forties meant to lampoon
Hitler.  Neither of us had ever seen it before, but it really hit the
spot last night.  I felt like I identified with everyone's anger, and
this day and age, Hitler is everyone's go-to evil comparison, but I
forget that there was a time where people supported him and asking
someone a question like "what do you think of Adolf Hitler?" may have
been a hot button issue.  I can only imagine the hearty, righteous
laughter coming out of the theater where this movie was first played,
watching everyone salute an /Adenoid Hynkle/ who would only allow
artists to paint him in ten second increments and who spent all day
fatally testing war devices.

That's my time, I have to catch my bus.  This felt good to write, and
as always, thanks for reading.

*** 2019-10-17 Thursday strongbad, charcuterie, and drinks

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Another chilly morning, and the sun is
starting to come up a lot later.  Waking up during the colder months
feels so different, like I'm wandering around in a cave.  This morning
I'm drinking "Black Cat Espresso" by Intelligentsia.  Do with that as
you will.

Sip.  I had an extra five minutes before it was time to start writing,
so while I took my first few sips of coffee I watched a random Strong
bad email.  It was #204, or "[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MujQp2NKl5U][dictionary]]", where somebody asks
Strongbad if he makes his own dictionary for all his made up words.
I'd recommend it, it's a good one.

Yesterday was pretty all over the place.  It was a pretty chaotic day
at work, hiding away to write more reviews, then scouring our project
for things I forgot to do before moving the project to staging.  In
the afternoon, our team had a presentation for some company executives
that were in town visiting, then we had a work happy hour.  We met at
some place near the square.  I was thinking about skipping it because
I've had a crazy week and I was feeling pretty shy, but I decided to
go, and I'm glad I did.  It was a good time mingling with coworkers,
getting some drinks in, and eating off of a very pretentious
charcuterie plate.  We all stood around trying to figure out what kind
of pickled vegetables we were eating.  I ate something that tasted
like an onion, but was bright neon pink, like a high lighter or pepto
bismol.

Around six, I jumped on a bus.  I don't know the later busses as well,
and I accidentally jumped on the 4 as it was heading west.  I quickly
jumped off around State street.  I was grateful I didn't have to walk
by the restaurant again where everyone was working, I'd have a
difficult time playing that off.  Eventually I jumped on the six and
texted Marissa.  My long time next door neighbor got on the bus right
next to me, and because of the dim lights there was a good four or
five seconds where we were studying each other and realizing the
coincidence.  We chatted about how nice it is to live so close to a
bus line, which is one of my favorite topics in the realm of bus
smalltalk.

When I walked in the house, I was greeted by the wonderful smell of
Marissa's cooking.  I was surprised it was something other than
buffalo chicken casserole.  She decided to try chicken tikka masala
served with rice and warm naan bread, and from where I was sitting she
hit it out of the park.  "I feel so useless just walking in the door
after happy hour and sitting down at the table expecting food," I
joked.  It's the truth - there's no easy transition out of a mid week
happy hour.  It's like going from Friday night to Monday morning with
absolutely no buffer in between.  One moment, you're drinking beer
with work friends, and within the hour there's dinner, dishes,
laundry, and bedtime.  The tikka masala, if anything, was my buffer.
As we caught up around the dinner table, I could feel the spices in
sauce take over my metabolism, making me sleepy, and it felt so good
and comforting.  Don't you love the way Indian food makes you feel
right after you eat it?

Marissa gave Rodney a bath and I put him to bed.  Having not seen him
all day, we dragged bedtime out for another twenty minutes or so.  I
let Rodney try reading the book to me, then to throw him off I climbed
into his bed and dismissed him like he had just put me to bed.

Afterwards, I went to the kitchen.  Marissa had already taken care of
the dishes from dinner, but I had more Wednesday chores to do, and the
kitchen knives were due for sharpening.  I popped in and out of the
dining room while Marissa worked at the table trimming frames.

We reconvened sometime around 11 to continue watching /The Great
Dictator/.  Didn't quite finish it - just a measly fifteen minutes to
go before we called it quits.  It's only Wednesday night after all.

This morning, I'm slowing waking up with coffee, sitting here in a
comfortable hoodie grateful to reach the end of a busy week.  I have a
day off tomorrow.  Tonight should be pretty sweet, being my early
Friday.  I have Kids Code after work, then Marissa and I will put Rod
to bed and watch Hot Ones.  Paul Rudd is going to be on this week, I
would check it out if I were you.  I'm a big Paul Rudd loyalist these
days.  If you talk to me about a movie, chance are that I'll argue it
would have been a better movie if he was given the lead instead.  Like
/We Bought A Zoo/.  Paul Rudd would have killed it, let's be honest.

Hope you have a great Thursday today.  Go get 'em.

*** 2019-10-18 Friday podcasts, games, and rest

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Friday to you, as you're waking up,
getting to work, and getting ready to begin the final work day of the
week.  As for me, I'm in my robe in full day-off mode.  The coffee
just finished brewing, and in a few minutes after a quick entry I'm
going to make breakfast and get everyone up.

I don't even know what we have in the fridge - I feel like I've been
out of the kitchen for most of the week.  On Tuesday we ate out, on
Wednesday I had an after work happy hour and Marissa cooked, and
yesterday was Kid Code, so Marissa put some Portillo's in the fridge
for me.  But as long as we have some eggs, we're still in business.

Yesterday was a great day.  Our team went out to lunch with the NOC,
as some of their people from Manila were visiting.  We took up two
tables comfortably in lower level of the Great Dane, talking about
technology, computers, and podcasts.  The new Office Ladies podcast
debuted yesterday, so that was on my mind.  "My mom wanted to watch
it, and this was her first podcast, " I said.  "And to be honest I was
having a hard time explaining the format to her.  Podcasts are weird."
The few podcast listeners at the table leaned in as we waited for our
food.

Podcasts are weird.  Most of them are just flat out bad.  A flimsy
pretense, too many ad reads, iffy production quality.  And many of the
podcasts that are "good" are over-hyped, or have real problems with
cult followers and gate-keeping.

After lunch, I finished my peer reviews, then wrapped up my project
for the week, finally getting the code into our staging environment.
It was a busy week, but I like getting some closure on whatever I'm
working on.  If all went according to plan, the team will push it out
to the rest of our staging environment today using the notes and
modifications we made yesterday.

After work, I jumped on a bus and came home to Rodney and Marissa
putting up more Halloween decorations.  Marissa was trying to angle a
yard sign in a way that wasn't blocked by our little figurine of a
corgi in a bumble bee costume.  I headed inside to set down my stuff
and unwind before KidsCode.  I had about a half hour before I needed
to head over.  I grabbed my tech bin and wandered over to the library
to set up for the evening session.  I didn't have a lesson plan
yesterday, but being so close to Halloween I decided I could just get
away with the old "make a spooky game" stand by.  The library has a
bin full of candy hidden in the back for us, and I knew I could
probably leverage that as a prize for some kind of last minute
Halloween game making contest.  We had a great time.  It was a good
turnout with a few first timers.  One kid made a fascinating retro
style puzzler where you cycled between characters named /death/,
/fear/, and /anger/, each having special powers that could help you
escape from a room.  There was another entry called /Trick or Treater
Deleter/, which was a classic zombie survival game, only instead of
fending off zombies, you fought of neighborhood kids from getting to
your candy.  Another kid showed off changes he made to the Star Wars
game he'd been working on for a few weeks, and he jokingly added a
small floating skeleton in the corner so it would qualify for the
contest.

After all the kids went home, we cleaned up the library room then
departed for the night.  I walked in the door just as Marissa was
about to put Rodney to bed, so I read him his bedtime story.  After
Rodney went down for bed, I heated up my dinner and watched the new
episode of Hot Ones with Marissa.  Paul Rudd was interviewed.  It was
a fascinating, meandering discussion, but the real surprise was how
well Paul Rudd handled the hot wings.  He became one of the few guests
on the show to eat all the wings without drinking any milk or water.

What followed may have been the laziest evening of my life.  Marissa
worked on some paintings while I took a shower and laid on the couch
drifting in and out of a nap while watching King of the Hill.  It's
been a long week, and I needed an hour or so of power cycling.

Today, I'm feeling refreshed, and looking forward to a fun day in
Chicago.  Today we're dropping Rodney off at grandma & grandpa's
house, and Marissa and I are going to a Hawks game in the evening,
doing a lot of city wandering in between.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  If you're out there beginning
your last day of work, hang in there.  In no time, you'll be all done,
and you too will get to lay on the couch and power cycle while
watching King of the Hill.  Have a great Friday.

*** 2019-10-19 Saturday hawks game

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  This morning I'm coming to you from my
parents' place in Geneva.  Yesterday after some last minute packing
and tidying up, we hit the road sometime in the late morning.  First
we dropped the dogs off at 'summer camp', then we made it into Geneva
sometime in the early afternoon.  We hung around the house for about
an hour, letting Rod get settled in, then we got dropped off at the
train station.  There were three other people waiting at the platform
wearing hockey jerseys.  "This must be the Blackhawks train," laughed
the conductor as he slid open the doors.

Marissa and I made our way to the top deck and sat in the back.  "Look
at how many people are drinking White Claw," Marissa remarked.  I
glanced around the train, mentally counting the opened cans of White
Claw, and sure enough it seemed like it was in the dozens.  "I don't
get it.  There's barely any alcohol in them, why do people like them
so much," Marissa continued.  A group of young kids our age sat near
us.  They were also drinking white claw.  "No laws when you're on
claws," I mumbled under my breath, trying to get Marissa to laugh.

When we arrived in the city, we had about an hour before the game
started.  The plan was to find some place to eat along the way, but as
we got closer to the United Center we decided to just head in and find
our seats.  Stadium junk food was starting to sound good anyway.  I
hadn't been to the United Center in a really long time, but back in
the day when I was a much bigger Hawks fan, it used to be a bigger
part of my life.  "I remember working on homework here while watching
the games," I reminisced.  "My dad's work had a skybox, and when they
weren't using the seats to entertain a client, I would go."

There's a really fun energy walking around the united center.
Marissa, expecting to feel claustrophobic and overwhelmed, noted how
exciting it was to be around the fans, and even though there were over
20 thousand people there, you didn't really feel packed in.  Entering
our section in the upper balcony, I could feel my heart skipping a
beat seeing the lit up ice rink, house music blaring over the
speakers.  Marissa turned to me with her jaw dropped.  After finding
our seats, we ventured out to get some food and drinks.  We followed
the winding hallway until Marissa stopped in her tracks.  "I smell
nachos," she said with the intensity of a hunter tracking a wounded
animal.  We ordered chicken nacho grande.  Just as I was asking "is it
going to be enough food," the lady behind the counter handed me the
upside down hockey helmet filled with chips, meat, and cheese.  "OH,
alright then I think this will be enough," I said answering my own
question.

It was a wonderful game.  Chicago and Columbus were tied throughout
the whole game, but Chicago took them in the first minute of over
time - which was really the best of both worlds.  We got to see extra
minutes of hockey, but it didn't keep us there very late.

After the game, Marissa and I wandered around the city.  The
excitement of the hockey game left us in a nostalgic mood.  We
recounted our third date where I took Marissa into the city.  "Not
only was that my first time going into the city without my family, but
that may have been my first time going anywhere without them,"
remembered Marissa.  "Could you imagine if I was /deranged/," I
laughed.  I took Marissa into the city for our third date.  She took
the train from College Ave, and I jumped on at the Wheaton station.
We wandered around the city all night, finishing the evening sitting
in Millennium park.  We still debate if that would've been too soon
for our first kiss, which would happen on the next date, but that was
definitely the first time we both thought about it.

Marissa and I took the 11:40 train back.  We both fell asleep slumped
over in the back of the train.  My head shot up at 12:40, and I
hurriedly dug out my phone to check where we were.  Marissa's phone
alarm went off.  "Perfect timing," she said.  We waited for an Uber
from the train station back to my parents place.  For a few minutes,
we could here coyotes screaming in the distance, and they suddenly
stopped.  Marissa and I bided our time by trying to howl back at them.
After about fifteen minutes, our Uber arrived.  "You know I just came
from the United Center, ya'll should have just ridden with me," he
laughed.  At least we got in a good nap on the train.

When we got home, we heated up a plate of Aurelio's pizza before
sailing off to bed.

This morning, we're about to pack the car and head home.  Our evening
hanging out with Grandpa and Grandma, walking around in the city, and
watching the Blackhawks play was the perfect ending to a busy week.

Thanks for reading, and hope you have a relaxing weekend too.

*** 2019-10-20 Sunday houses, orchards, cooking, and games

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone.  It's a wonderful Sunday morning.  I just spent
the morning cleaning up from dinner and straightening up the kitchen
before the rest of the family joined me to eat breakfast.  We've got a
busy family day planned, but before we get to that, let's recap the
action-packed weekend we've had thus far.

We left my parents' place in the late morning.  The drive was long and
dreary, but I rediscovered my love of the /Stuff You Should Know/
podcast, which curtailed my boredom.  As Marissa dozed off in the
front seat and Rodney stared blankly out the window, I helped myself
to the fascinating audio narrated world of "environmental psychology",
which apparently is kind of a loose term for the discipline that tries
to wrangle together design, psychology, and sociology all to answer
the question of how our buildings affect the way we behave.  A quote
that stuck with me, said famously by Winston Churchill, went "At first
we shape our buildings, then they shape us."  The context here was
when the Nazis bombed the British parliament building and when it came
time to rebuild it and resume government operations there, Churchill
stubbornly insisted it should be built the exact same way (even though
it was on the smaller side before the war).  I think I would have
liked Churchill.

As I sat in the driver seat staring down the long stretch of
Midwestern highway, I thought about our house and how it has shaped
the way we live.  If I had to update the quote for my experience, I'd
say "first we nourish our buildings, then they nourish us."  Shape,
nourish, defend, protect - all different words for the same moral I
think.  This property line fiasco, which I'm happy to report is
finally winding down, has me thinking a lot about my house I guess.
We've been through a lot, and Marissa and I have sacrificed a lot for
the sake of this little house behind a Burger King, but there's love
here.  There's love in the creaky floors, and the hole studded walls,
and I can feel it loving and protecting us in return, especially on
chilly fall mornings like these.

We returned home with the dogs around 1 PM, giving us about a half
hour before we had to get back in the car and meet some friends at an
Orchard.  They were one of our first friends in Madison, and while we
were sad to see them move to Ohio a few years ago, they're one of
those people that set an example on how to stay in touch long
distance.  This weekend, they were passing through Madison and decided
to invite some friends to the Orchard.

Despite the thoughtfulness of the invitation, Marissa and I were
reluctant.  We were tired from the road, and nothing sounded more fun
than crashing on the couch.  But with the help of a hot shower and a
new change of clothes, we rallied, and before long we were on our way.

We spent about a half hour wandering the orchard before we ran into
our friends, but all the while our mouths were agape in wonder.  They
had old tractors, animals, fresh apple cider and apple donuts.  After
a few minutes of silently marveling, Marissa remarked "well I think
this makes up for our last orchard trip."  Marissa waited in line to
get some cider and donuts, while I took Rodney to climb on the
tractors.  He proudly sat in the driver sit, flipping levers and
wrenching the steering wheel.  We scurried over to a wooden cut out
train, where he flashed a thumbs-up for the camera looking out the
conductor window.

We bumped into Jon over by the animals.  Rod climbed out of the red
wagon to go study a brave sheep that had wandered over to the fence
while Marissa and I caught up with Jon.  We were pleased to hear that
he and his family are doing well.

As the orchard was closing, we gave Jon a lift to where we was
staying.  Later I'd meet up with him for game night, but first we had
to cook dinner.  I dropped Marissa and Rodney off at home, then went
to Hy-Vee.  Moving quickly to make up for lost time, I picked up
tilapia, snapper, corn and beans.  I also extemporaneously nabbed a
mango and some bell peppers.  Remembering how well the tilapia tasted
with my pineapple habanero hot sauce, I decided to extend the theme by
frying the corn with a spicy mix of mango, pepper, and cilantro with
just a splash of hot sauce.  It felt good to be in the kitchen again.
We ate dinner, Marissa and I put Rodney to bed, then I made my a few
blocks across the street for game night.

I knew a few people that were going, but I didn't know the host, which
made me feel especially weird just wandering over and letting myself
in through the front door.  "You must be...?"  "ALEX" I replied
enthusiastically.  "And I brought cookies."  That's something nobody
told me about baking - bringing cookies is like an awkward social
situation immunity.  People can only get so annoyed with a guy that
brings cookies, right?

Jon's friends greeted me and gave me a seat at the table.  They were
playing some kind of card game version of Monopoly, but seeing upwards
of twelve million dollars in my lap, it was clear the stakes were a
lot higher.  Calvin smirked as he collected my twelve million dollars
in "rent", but the tide must have turned when I used a wild card to
snap up a monopoly on water and electric.  For a first time robber
baron, I think I did pretty well, but it could have been beginner's
luck.

We played a few more games and had some more drinks before I bid
everyone farewell and made the brisk walk back to my house.  Marissa
was in the basement busily cutting float frames.  I asked her if she
wanted to grab some air on the deck.

Yesterday was a great day, and a much needed source of energy for this
weekend.  Today, we're running errands.  We're hoping to hit Target,
Home Depot, Hy-Vee, then pick up lunch all before the Bears game this
afternoon.  Today Marissa and I are going to buy the stuff needed for
the IT corner remake.  Other than that, just soaking up as many
moments at home as we can.

As you should, too.  Hope you have a wonderful, relaxing Sunday, and
Bear down!

*** 2019-10-21 Monday bears, burgers, instagram, and bowling

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling good this Monday morning.
It's dark, dreary, and looking at the forecast I might have to walk to
the bust stop through a misting of rain, but that's actually sounding
pretty refreshing right now.

Yesterday was a pretty good day - nothing to write home about, but it
felt like a very typical day, and after spending so much of this
weekend traveling and going to places, it was a much needed return to
average.  We all ate breakfast at the table, then left ran some
errands as a family.  We first went to Home Depot to pick up some
supplies, which included wood for the new shelves in the IT corner.
We grabbed a quick lunch at Portillo's, then swung by Hy-Vee to pick
up food.  We put Rodney down for a nap, then Marissa worked in the
basement while I watched the Bears game.

I'm just going to be brave here.  The Bears played pretty poorly.
It's starting to look like a very unfortunate year to jump on the
Bears bandwagon, but we're here now, and this is our team.  Their
performance was pretty underwhelming, especially considering they've
had an entire two weeks off since getting pummeled by the Raiders in
London.  I was pretty hopeful, I thought they would figure things out,
and just the shear fact that we got our starting QB back would get
everyone fired up.  Mitch was back, but he missed some frustratingly
easy throws.  Our offense was in shambles, and by the third quarter
our defense matched.  It was still fun to watch the game, but I really
hope the Bears try something new before next Sunday.  At this point
they have little to lose.

As the game started to wind down, I fired up the grill to cook some
burgers.  As Marissa was working in the basement, I could hear her
yelling at the TV, so in a sense I felt like I was still following the
action, even while working outside.  I plated up dinner, which was
just some regular Hy-Vee burgers, baked beans, and potato chips.

I'm just going to be brave here.  My burgers didn't turn out great.  I
don't know how I managed to screw up cheeseburgers, but it's humbling,
and it will make you stand back and evaluate things.  I'm still not
sure what happened.  I used the pre-formed patties that come in an
eight pack.  I seasoned them, seared them on each side for about a
minute, then finished them over indirect heat.  If anything, I thought
I left the burgers on for too long, since I had to help Rodney use the
potty around the time I'd normally take them out, but a few of the
patties had red inside of them.  It was like they were somehow
overcooked and undercooked at the same time.  "It's like someone slid
a shard of frozen beef into the center of these, like a splinter -
just to mess with me," I joked.

Following my lead, we also together chided my lapse in judgment in
getting chips as a side dish.  "Yeah, chips aren't a side," Marissa
laughed.  "Now I'm really thirsty, like I feel like I need to drink a
gallon of water."

I have to stand back and laugh.  This past year has been a cooking
Renaissance for me.  I've learned lots of new recipes, but I still
grill the same way.  To borrow from Mitch Trubisky's words after last
night's horrible game, "Our offense has no identity.  We're just
searching."  Same for my grilling game, Mitch.

After dinner, I knocked out my Sunday chores, caught up on some
emails, then edited a timelapse together for Marissa.  After selecting
a song from my playlist, I finally took the time to read up on
Instagram's rules with copyrighted music, and I was very disappointed
to learn how restrictive it is.  "When in doubt, you should not post
content that you didn't create, including music," read the FAQ on
their support site.  We've gotten away with it thus far, and when a
video of hers has gotten flagged it's pretty simple to re export it
without the audio and resubmit it, but Marissa just hit 100K followers
over the weekend and I was suddenly feeling wary about pushing our
luck with such an investment.

You can still use royalty free music, so you're free to make your
video sound like an iPhone commercial or a crummy soundcloud rapper
promo.  "I guess you'll have to start making music," Marissa joked.
She reminded me that at one point I talked about getting a small drum
machine like the one Kanye keeps in a small shiny suitcase.  It's
still possible I guess.  She should consider the seed planted.

Marissa worked up until bedtime while I wound down the night with some
King of the Hill.  The dogs both snuggled on the couch with me while I
drank a beer.  I watched the episode where Bobby starts to express
interest in football and Hank plans the perfect football outing to
seal the deal and they get into lots of trouble.

Today, back to work, and back to a regular week.  Marissa is planning
on releasing a bunch of paintings at the end of the week, and last
night we were kicking around the idea of going bowling on Friday to
celebrate.  We think Rodney is old enough - if not old enough to roll
a ball, he's certainly old enough to appreciate the bowling alley
vibe.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading, and I'll
see you in the next entry.

*** 2019-10-22 Tuesday incidents, cheeseburgers, and salads

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing wonderful this morning.
Looks like it's supposed to keep raining today.  Yesterday it happened
to downpour for the four minutes it took me to cross the street and
walk to the bus stop.  It always seems to work out that way, doesn't
it?  I also wore a lighter pair of canvas shoes, so I walked around
with wet socks for most of the day.  Today I'm prepared.  I'm wearing
a rain pancho, and I think that's going to be my look for the whole
day.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  When I got to work, we were in the
middle of something called a "sev 4" incident, which in short means
something's about to break.  We all sat silently combing over metrics
and reading change logs for about an hour before we finally found the
culprit.  We alerted the team, they reverted the change, and the
graphs immediately began to trend down to more palatable numbers.  It
was a pretty good win for our team.  In previous months, something
like this probably would have gone unnoticed until it caused an actual
incident, so the fact that we were able to anticipate an incident and
resolve it before it happened is something to be proud about.  We
moved all of our morning meetings to the afternoon, so I ate lunch and
went for a long walk.

While I was heating up my cheeseburger in the break room, a coworker
of mine innocently asked "where did you get that cheeseburger, is it
from Walgreen's?"  His exact wording made me erupt in laughter.  The
night before while I was trying to convince Marissa of how terrible my
cheeseburgers were, my closing argument was "Look at it!  Just look at
it on the plate, it looks like one of those frozen cheeseburgers from
Walgreen's I used to eat!"  The reference sidetracked our play
argument.  "Why did you walk to Walgreen's and not to Novanta, they're
right next to each other," she asked.  "Probably because we were tight
on money, and those cheeseburgers were only $2.50," I laughed.

The rest of the work day went pretty swimmingly, and soon I was on a
bus headed for home.  I threw together a shopping list, then scrolled
through twitter until we reached my stop.  Marissa was at the front
window making a bug eyed face at me as I walked up our driveway.  When
I walked in, Marissa eagerly gave me a tour of all the rooms she
tidied up while I was gone.  We chatted for a bit, then Rodney ran
around the corner and gave me a hug.  I scooped him up, put his shoes
on, then we went to the grocery store.

We had a big grocery list to get through.  I wanted to make hutspot,
saucijzenbroodjes, and try out a new cabbage & onion side.  Marissa
was also out of ingredients to make her salad.

/Sip/.  Ah, Marissa's salad.  Let's pause yesterday's recap and talk
about this salad.  Romaine lettuce, sweet corn, red onion, Mexican
cheese, cherry tomatoes, avocado, and BRIANNA'S HOMESTYLE cilantro
lime flavored salad dressing all make up her favorite Mexican salad.
She's made it for me a few times, and personally, I think it's too
much red onion.  It's a lot of red onion.  Like a whole red onion
diced up, and all the other ingredients are basically just plunged in
a cut up red onion.

For whatever reason, I hate picking up the ingredients for this salad.
It used to be a big point of contention for us.  Earlier in our
marriage we've had some real arguments that culminated in me flinging
bags of old lettuce and cheese out of the fridge trying to demonstrate
the chaos this salad has brought upon our home life.  Some days I
would come back from the grocery store and yell up to her "FIFTEEN
MINUTES.  TOOK ME FIFTEEN MINUTES TO FIND ALL THE INGREDIENTS FOR THIS
SALAD."  Before we used to regularly clean our fridge, we would
unknowingly purchase duplicate bottles of BRIANNA'S HOMESTYLE cilantro
lime flavored salad dressing, and one summer night while I was
cleaning through the fridge I found four unopened bottles.  I proudly
lined them all up on the counter like a lion with a fresh kill.

My time is almost up, and I guess I burned the rest of this entry
teasing my wife about her favorite salad.  We're older and wiser now,
and I think this salad has finally gotten into teasing territory -
I'll hear about it if it hasn't.  It's actually not bad, as long as
you go easy on the red onion.  And if I'm such a salad critic, you'd
think I'd have a favorite salad.  I really don't.  I find salads kind
of obnoxious to make.  Just know this - if you ever eat dinner at my
house and I put a salad down in front of you, know that I must really
care about you.  And it probably took me fifteen minutes tracking all
over Hy-Vee to get the ingredients, I had to slice and rinse all those
stupid ingredients and toss them in a bowl, and you better appreciate
it.

This has been /Salad Ranting/ with Alex.  Hope you have a great day
today.

*** 2019-10-23 Wednesday weather, tea, letters, flowers, and anger

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  This morning
I'm taking my time winding up for the morning, enjoying the coffee.
Black Cat Espresso was a hit with Marissa, so I bought another bag,
and I think I finally figured out how to brew it well.  I just had to
use slightly more beans than I would for any other coffee - that seems
to have pushed it over the edge and made it a great cup of coffee.

Yesterday was a great day.  Leaving the house after ranting about
Marissa's infamous salad put me in a great mood.  It didn't rain
nearly as much as I expected, so wearing just a rain pancho, I was
starting to regret my outfit choice.  Yesterday, I was dressed for
Monday's weather, and on Monday I was dressed for yesterday's
weather - if that makes any sense.

Dressing for climate is hard, isn't it?  Especially if you live in the
Midwest.  I wish I could just wear the same thing every day, but you
have to live somewhere really temperate to do that, don't you?  I'd
like to see Steve Jobs wear one of his black turtlenecks and weird
jeans in Madison in the summer.  Or in Madison during the winter.  A
thin black turtleneck would be a poor choice for both.  If you wear
the same thing every day, you're not a genius.  The way I see it, you
either live in California, or you're an idiot.

I had a much more normal day of work.  After morning stand-up, my
coworker brewed some Chinese green tea for us all to try.  I didn't
mind sacrificing a cup of coffee - it's all just caffeine anyway.  We
stood in the kitchen watching her skillfully steep the tea leaves in
hot water, decanting it into our coffee stained mugs.

For lunch, I heated up my hutspot.  I had been thinking about it all
morning, especially since I was under-dressed for the cold.  I also
brought a saucijzenbroodje, cramming it into the tupperware between
the cabbage and the lid.  On Monday, I was running behind on dinner,
so rather than crimping the remaining meat into a neat little log, I
just flopped it down in the middle of some puff pastry and pinched it
closed - like some kind of weird Dutch ravioli.  But puff pastry looks
gorgeous after you bake it, no matter what shape it's in, and the lazy
meat pastry monstrosity looked like a very thoughtful variation of a
sausage roll.

I slinked away to the seventh floor eating area with my lunch and my
laptop.  Sometime that day, we would get the official map from the
surveyor so we could mail a copy to my neighbor, and I wanted to write
a cover letter.  I wasn't looking to stoke anything new.  It was just
a courteous little bow to tie on this crummy property line dispute,
and hopefully conclude it.  I think perhaps in a parallel universe,
I'm making a living writing legal documents for people, if that job
even exists.  Sometimes I get carried away with flowery /legaleze/,
but I have just as much of a right to be an armchair lawyer as anyone
else, don't I?  When I was done, I sent the letter to Marissa for
review.  I made sure to include my usual wildly inappropriate and
outlandish "PS" section where I end the letter in the worst way
possible.  I couldn't help myself.  I made sure to delete my joke
postscript before Marissa could print it.

As I got onto the bus, I got a message from Marissa warning me that
Rod was in a pretty bad mood.  "No problem," I responded.  "We'll
screw around at Hy-Vee for a bit, then I'll try to keep him in the
kitchen."  Whatever had been bothering him all day must have worn off
after a good nap.  He was still sleeping when I got home, and was
pretty agreeable as I woke him up, got his socks on, and put him in
the car.

I try to chat with Rodney when we drive to the grocery store.  I can
usually hold his attention for a few seconds before he sees an
ambulance or an excavator, and acknowledging those as we drive by
takes precedence over small talk.  "How was your day today, dude?" I
asked from the front seat, turning down the music.  "Vriblllrblrrib
glib sfffverlish bita... Mama mad.  Mama mad," Rodney replied.
Rodney's a good talker, but at this stage he has to warm up each
sentence with a few syllables of babbling, which we've started doing
ourselves too - I think everyone should try talking that way.  "Yeah?
I heard you guys had some problems today..." I replied.  "DADA.  LOOK.
EXCAVATOR," yelled Rodney.  And at that, small talk with Dad
concluded.

We picked up ingredients for cream of chicken and wild rice soup.  We
were moving quickly, having lost a lot of time in traffic.  Rod picked
up on my urgency and remained helpful.  I ripped off a piece of bread
for him, and he sat on the bottom lip of the cart and nibbled on it
contently.  Just before we pulled into a checkout lane, we decided to
swing by the flowers and pick some up for Mom.  "I know you probably
already said 'sorry', dude, but sometimes some surprise flowers can
help smooth things over," I explained.  I was speaking from
experience.

Rodney proudly presented the flowers to Mom while I unpacked the
groceries and prepped for dinner.  "Rodney is out of the doghouse," we
joked.  Marissa went back downstairs to work, and Rodney and I got to
making dinner.  We chopped the veggies together at the counter, then
he got bored and asked if he could watch Blippi.  "Sure, dude - I have
to cut the chicken now anyway," I replied.  And there's no good way to
tag team slicing chicken thighs with a toddler.  That has to be among
the top five worst learning activities.  Rodney plopped on the couch
with his juice, I hit shuffle on our 100 hours of saved Blippi
episodes, and I returned to making dinner.

As we ate, we talked about anger.  It seemed like it was on everyone's
mind - mouthing off to mom during a morning dog agility outing, or
stewing about a crummy interaction with a neighbor that dredged up
some dormant bitterness.

After dinner, I watched a final episode of Blippi with Rodney on the
couch, then put him to bed.  Lately his favorite book to read is this
very flimsy "spot the animal" book.  It only has six pages.  For all
the filibustering he does to prolong bedtime - tucking in each stuffed
animal and trying to draw my attention to the window - you'd think he
would pick a longer book, right?

I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa continued to work downstairs.  We
reconvened on the couch around 11:30, having just enough time to
finish Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Watching Indiana Jones has been such
a delight.  For the last few days, Marissa and I have been swept away
by how cool this movie is, and we sheepishly admitted to each other
that we've never actually seen it.  "I convinced myself that I've seen
it, but I think I've only watched the scene at the end where
everyone's head explodes," I explained.  Alert the newspapers - the
Recker family approves of /Raiders of the Lost Ark/.

It was midnight, and we didn't feel like going to bed just yet.  I was
showing Marissa some movies I added to our plex server, and one of
them was "The Last Kiss" with Zach Braff and Rachel Bilson.  "Why did
you get this," Marissa asked.  "It was filmed in Madison," I eagerly
explained.  "It was set there too, I think they're both supposed to be
UW students, and I heard there are lots of shots of the city."  I
thought it would be fun to watch pretentious celebrities pretend to be
humble Madisonians like us.  We watched twenty minutes of the movie,
and while it opened with a nice pan from our great capital building to
a familiar Wisconsin license plate, the remaining twenty minutes we
watched was disgusting.  Really bad - even for Zach Braff.  I paused
the movie, looking at the elapsed time in horror.  "This is going to
be a long one.  Buckle in."  Our rules dictate that once we start
watching a movie we own, we have to finish it.  Marissa reminded me
that /Hitch/ was my idea too.

The big question is - will it be worse than /Hitch/?

*** 2019-10-24 Thursday home, sfincione, movies, and quesadillas

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday to you.  And to my mother who
is probably reading this thirty seconds after it was published, happy
birthday Mom!  The first thing on my to-do list this morning when I
get into work is to write you a birthday email, so expect that soon.

Yesterday was one of those days where I didn't leave my house all day.
In the afternoon, I worked a bit sitting on the deck, but it doesn't
count unless I left my backyard.  I didn't even make it as far as the
driveway.  I usually work from home on Wednesdays, but we didn't go
out to eat for lunch and I didn't need to go to the grocery store
either, so this definitely was a special case.

Rod woke up with about an hour after me.  Marissa stirred, but I told
her to go back to bed and offered to get him ready for the morning.
Marissa has been staying up late trying to finish her paintings before
the end of the week, and I knew she could use the extra hour or so of
sleep.  I worked on the couch while Rod watched Blippi.  Sometime
around 9:30 he ran up to me with his wooden recorder and offered to go
upstairs and use it to wake Momma up.  I laughed, because in that
moment I couldn't think of a worse way to wake up.  The little devil
over my shoulder wanted me to let him - she would go back to sleep and
laugh about it later, right?  But better sensibilities prevailed.

Around 11, I took a break and heated up some lunch.  I had some
leftover hutspot and a saucijzenbroodje.  I also had a beer.  I'm
conditioned to expect a beer during Wednesday lunch, whether we go out
to eat or not.

I finished up the workday, then sometime around four Marissa and I had
a quick sync-up to plan the night.  We wanted to make sfincione, and
since we were planning on making it last week we still had all the
ingredients around.  "I just need a yellow onion, so as dumb as it
sounds we'll need to swing by Hy-Vee...," I cut myself short while I
was rifling around the kitchen looking for ingredients.  I spotted a
perfect yellow onion hiding under our bananans.  "AH!  Nevermind,
somehow we have an onion."

Marissa took Rod to Home Depot to pick up some supplies, and I fired
up a podcast and started making the sfincione.  Usually, we hurriedly
make this pizza on Friday night after I get home from work.  I forgot
how relaxing it was to mix the sticky, sweet dough, simmer the sauce,
and grate cheese in the kitchen.  I kicked off a podcast, then got to
work, getting the pristine pizza in the oven exactly when Marissa and
Rodney pulled in the driveway.

We had just added the new Lion King movie to plex, and since today was
such a cozy home day, I suggested we eat pizza on the couch while
watching it.  Rod wanted to watch Blippi, so there was some family
drama, but soon enough we were all grazing on fresh pizza watching the
movie.  We had seen it once in the theater, and the second time around
seeing it in our own home we felt the freedom to be more critical.
"Is it just me or does Mufasa sound less natural?" Marissa asked out
loud.  "Definitely, " I agreed.  "He has a great voice, but it sounds
like a monologue, even when he's talking to Simba."  The movie
continued on to the more well known musical numbers.  I pointed out
that during the famous "Ain't no worries" interlude, Donald Glover
doesn't sing the melody straight.  Which is fine, but it bothered me
that he even riffed on the first line when older Simba emerges from
the bushes.  They also really make a meal out of the Timon and Pumba
dialog.  It felt like a Seth Rogan buddy comedy was laced throughout
the whole song.

We paused the Lion King so I could put Rodney to bed.  Marissa and I
stood on the deck for a few minutes watching the rain, then I did my
Wednesday chores while she worked in the basement.  Before Marissa
went downstairs, she hinted that she would be in the mood for
quasadillas later that night.  Message received loud and clear, wife.
Around 11, knowing she'd be coming upstairs any minute, I fried some
cheese quesadillas in cast iron.  We were out of Mexican cheese, so I
had to make one of them with Mozzarella.  I've always teased my wife
about how bad she is at differentiating which cheese is appropriate to
use for the given meal (e.g. mozzarella on Italian, Monterey on
tacos), so I joked that it was the great cheese tasting challenge.
"One of these quesadillas is appropriate for the theme - the other is
an imposter," I laughed.

After our late night snack, we watched a little more of Zach Braff's
boring self-centered loosely Madison based soap opera.  I'm talking of
course about the movie /The Last Kiss/.  We watched what felt like an
hour, but pausing the movie at midnight, Marissa threw a pillow at my
head seeing we had 55 minutes to go.  The movie is definitely worse
than /Hitch/.  At least it's 'soap opera' bad.  It's very sad and
infuriating, but I have a feeling that it's going to get so bad it
will take us out of it and the rest will be easier to watch.  The
Madison Wisconsin references are at an all time low.  At one point,
Sarah Bilson asked Zach Braff to meat her at the terrace, and we
recognized those weird colorful chairs they had set down by the water.
But if that and the capital are the only part of our home we'll
recognize this movie, it was /not/ worth it.

That's my time.  Have a great day, everyone.  If you see my mother
around, wish her a happy birthday.

*** 2019-10-25 Friday photos and debugging

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  And happy Friday.  This morning with my
morning coffee I went on a little photo editing adventure.  When my
phone alarm went off this morning, there was a little sticky note
attached to it telling me to check slack.  I sleepily unlocked my
phone and saw a message from my wife at 3:42 AM saying she had some
trouble getting the photos off of her new camera and exporting them to
the right format.  I trudged downstairs in my robe, let the dogs out,
and poured some coffee.  As I carefully manipulated her new camera
under the light of my phone's flashlight, I couldn't help but admire
how sturdy and well-made it is.  Finding the SD card bay was a much
more pleasant experience than it was on the GOPRO we used to use for
this.

I popped open the slot - empty.  Picking my phone up off the window
sill for light, I searched the computer work station for the SD card.
It was lying next to the Intel NUC on the desk, plugged into an SD
card adapter.  "Ah, evidence of a struggle... with technology," I
muttered to myself, doing the best impression of a crime scene
investigator I could.

I removed the micro SD card from the SD card adapter.  It felt so
light at the end of my finger, like a little piece of cilantro.  As a
side note, I'm not a fan with how everything is switching over to the
"micro" version of what it was already doing.  Micro USB.  Micro
HDMI.  Micro SD.  Enough already.

I slid the tiny card delicately into the side of the NUC.  I could
feel the spring retract, then emit a very satisfying /ka-KLINK/.  The
file manager program detected the new device and opened on the
desktop.  It took some clicking around to find where the pictures were
actually stored.  I was especially puzzled to still see a folder
called "100GOPRO".  Either we forgot to wipe the SD card before using
it in her new camera, or Canon's camera is smart enough to leave
everything alone.  Inside were over 500 CR2 files - the ones that were
giving Marissa trouble last night.  I copied all the files to the
desktop.  While waiting, I took a moment to appreciate how defeated
she must have felt last night.  When I went to bed, she told me she
was hoping to get all the photos of her new paintings on her website
before morning.  I can imagine the frustration and doubt, wondering if
the camera was set up correctly and if she would have to spend time
taking pictures all over again.

I went to the internet, searching for "converting CR2 on linux".  The
first result was from stack exchange.  There was a program called
"ufraw-batch" that could do the file conversion right at the terminal.
I ran the program.  It slurped in the first photo and hung for about
two minutes.  Suddenly ufraw-batch didn't feel like a silver bullet
anymore.  The program crashed, spitting the dreaded words
"segmentation fault" to the terminal before dying.  Well that's not a
good sign.  I punched "ufraw-batch segmen" into the search bar.
Google happily supplied the rest - "segmentation fault".  There was an
open bug filed for ufraw-batch on ubuntu 18.04 titled "ufraw-batch
crashes with segmentation fault".  I scrolled to the bottom, scanning
the comments for workarounds or solutions.  Nothing.  Back to google.

I found the original stack exchange post that lead me to the program.
In the comments, somebody noted the fatal bug in Ubuntu - that would
have saved me some time.  There was another suggestion underneath to
use a program called "mogrify".  Mysteriously, it was already
installed on our computer.  Had Marissa tried this before?  Was she
secretly a computer genius?  Ah, I see now, it's embedded in the
standard "imagemagick" program.  That's convenient, but not nearly as
exciting as Marissa having a secret expertise.

I ran the program in the terminal.  It processed the files quickly,
spitting out PNG files right next to the original CR2s.  I double
clicked one of them while the program was working.  The lighting
looked better - it was no longer dark and shadowy like the CR2s, but
this version was almost too white.  It looked like it was washed out.
I knew that would never do.

I cancelled the program and did some quick reading about CR2s.  I
learned that for one, it was called "cannon raw format".  I broadened
my search, looking for raw image editors for linux.  My hope was that
if I couldn't export the photos to something, at least I could kick
the tires on a new editing program and let Marissa fight it out all
morning.  Not ideal, but the photos would still make it to her
website.  I stumbled upon "darktable".

I flipped over to a terminal and installed it.  It opened right away,
but instead of the typical gross, practical looking linux software it
actually looked pretty sexy.  Nice font, jet black buttons, and very
intuitive.  Scanning over the options, I imported the CR2s.  I was
pleased to see the thumbnails were rendered in natural color.  It must
know what it's doing.

As I was searching for some basic editing functions, I came across an
export menu.  "Export to JPEG."  That looks good.  A few clicks later,
and light table was cranking through the photos, dumping them into a
new folder I created.  I double clicked the first.  It was a picture
of Ollie, looking wise and graceful, in full light and natural color.
Success!  I jumped in the shower while they finished converting.

This morning while writing this, I'm uploading all the photos to
Marissa's Google account.  Don't worry honey, the photos look great,
and it's already on 295 out of 595, so they should be ready to rock
when you wake up.  Just in case you need the originals, they're on
the desktop in a folder called JPEGS.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Keep an eye on
astuaryart.com - my wife has a whole bunch of paintings she's
releasing today.

*** 2019-10-26 Saturday sleeping, kanye, bowling and blankets

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  It's a beautiful, brisk Saturday morning.  I
just ran out to get some coffee, and after setting up Rodney with some
Blippi I decided to knock out my journal entry before making some
breakfast.

All week Marissa and I have been staying up a little late all this
week, and those missing 30 or 60 minutes of sleep catch up with you.
Last night before drifting off to sleep, I deleted my Saturday alarm.
That's the mood this morning.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  For work lunch, we went out for
sushi, and upon returning I found out Kanye finally dropped his new
album.  Beaming, I grabbed my laptop and found a quiet place for my
first listen.  I love when Kanye releases new albums.  They take an
entire weekend to listen to.  To use a tired analogy, Kanye albums are
like a bottle of wine.  They change over time, and you have to let
them breath before you form any final opinions.  And the hardest thing
of all is how quickly he moves and changes directions.  Kanye is the
kind of artist that makes you sprint after him.  Usually, by the time
you've fully come to appreciate an album, he's already changed
directions for the next one.

I should have known better, but I had low expectations hearing he'd be
/christianizing/ the lyrics.  I regularly listened to the Yanhdi
bootleg, and really grew to love some of these tracks in their raw,
/less godly/ state, and when the lyrics finally made it to the
Internet I remember looking at them with Marissa in horror.  My
imagination fell short in trying to imagine lyrics like /put the 'gram
away, hold hands an pray/ in a quality hip hop album.

But for twenty-seven minutes yesterday I couldn't stop smiling.  It's
an absolute mess, and utterly confusing, but it has everything.
Following discussion on reddit and twitter, it's getting a lot of
hate, but honestly that just makes the album more fun.  People hate
every new Kanye album, but a few months from now I have confidence
that it will be touted as another classic.

I came home from work to Marissa taking a well-deserved nap on the
couch, and Rodney sleeping in his room upstairs.  Marissa's phone was
blowing up from Instagram comments and messages - sometimes I'm amazed
she can sleep through that.  If I had half as many followers as her,
I'd need to take the battery out of my phone before taking a nap.  I
put /Jesus Is King/ on our tv and unapologetically blasted it.
Marissa stirred, and smiled.

"IT'S TIME TO GO BOWLING," I announced.  Yesterday night was the
official Astuary Art float frame release bowling & pizza party.  I put
it on our family calendar a week ago, and we've been hyping it for a
few days.  Rodney ran down the stairs in excitement.

We put the dogs away and jumped in the car, heading just a few miles
east of our house to /Dream Lanes/.  We rented a lane, and for
collateral they took one shoe from each of us to store in the back.
Have you ever heard of a bowling alley taking precautions against
bowling shoe theft?  I just assumed that the bowling shoe itself would
be enough of a deterrent.  How much money could you get from a stolen
bowling shoe?  I bet Goodwill would even have a hard time accepting
that.

/Dream Lanes/ was a real bowling alley.  Earlier at work, I was asking
about it over lunch, and one coworker of mine who used to bowl in a
league gave me the rundown.  "It's perfect," he said.  "Kind of
rundown, just a touch of sadness, but you kind of want that in a
bowling alley, right?"  he laughed.  "Get the pig wings.  Don't try to
figure them out, just order them."

I bought a beer while Marissa and Rod put in an order for pizza and
pig wings.  Our lane lit up, and somebody from the counter brought out
a small ball and a metal ramp for Rodney.  We played two games,
intermittently stopping to snack on pizza.  I teased Marissa because
she kept bowling gutterballs and was convinced that she just hadn't
found the right ball.  By the time we were into the second game, we
had accumulate seven of them.  The only real competition was between
me and Rodney.  Even though Rodney had a metal ramp to roll the ball,
his ball was rough and seemed to hook in a random direction, so we
were just about even.  I eeked ahead in the end.

And the big wings /were/ delicious.  I couldn't figure them out - it
was like someone made braised ribs, took them off the bone, then
figured out how to re attach them to tiny PVC pipes.  "They don't look
natural," laughed Marissa.  "But they don't need to, they're strange
and perfect" I added.  Perfectly strange, just like Kanye's /Jesus Is
King/.

We bowled through the toddler witching hour, then head home to put
Rodney down to bed.  Marissa conducted his bedtime routine upstairs
while I started editing together a video for her paintings.  After the
video was done, we met on the couch to watch Indiana Jones.  "I want
to make a cocoon of blankets," she announced as the dogs eagerly
joined us on the couch.

Today, Marissa has an agility trial, and while she has the car, the
Rod man and I are going to hold down the fort at home.  We have a big
grocery trip today, and at some point I need to deal with the thawing
salmon filet in my fridge that I bought on a whim.

This weekend, here's to relaxing, grocery shopping, smoking fish, and
listening to new music.  There are a few productive things we can do
around the house, but it won't be the end of the world if those don't
get done.  Hope you have a wonderful and restful weekend.  I'm going
to go cook some eggs, then try to get Rodney to wake up Mom with his
recorder.

*** 2019-10-27 Sunday squash, movies, sauce, and giraffes

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Sunday, especially to those who also
decided to sleep in.  I feel like I've been sleeping extra hours all
weekend, waking up around 8:30 yesterday and pushing into the 9 range
this morning.  I must be subconsciously priming my body to deal with
daylight savings time.  By the way, our clocks go back one hour
exactly one week from now, so look alive out there.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  Marissa was at an agility trial
all day with Ziggy, to the Rod, Ollie, and I held down the fort all
day.  We heated up some leftovers for lunch, walked to the grocery
store, then cooked our first butternut squash soup.  I was pretty
blown away at how easy it was, especially considering how strange the
squash is to work with.  It was also very perilous to cut into, and I
was grateful I had a sharp knife and things went smoothly.  After the
squash was halfed, it went into a roasting pan with some onions and
carrots.  It was fun to take out the roasting pan again - the last
time I had seen it was while making a ham for easter.  While the
vegetables were roasting, I made bacon bits, and then just for kicks I
also cooked some cashews in butter and rosemary.  The smell of toasted
nuts, herb butter, crispy bacon, and simmering soup filled the house
when Marissa got home in the evening, and I was at peak fall-themed
cooking snobbery.  In fact, just for extra points I made sure the
/Fall/ EP by Jon Foreman was playing when we sat down to eat.

After dinner, Marissa put Rod to bed, then we finished watching
Marissa's pick, the temple of doom.  While it was a far better choice
than our last movie, /The Last Kiss/, the /Temple of Doom/ was really
stressful to watch.  It was like they fit three Indiana Jones movies
into one, making it as dense with action as they could.  "This movie
is like a coked out version of /Raiders of the Lost Ark/," I
complained.  "That's very possible, this came out in the 80's.
Everyone was probably doing coke," Marissa added.  "Look at how much
is happening on the screen!" I yelled.  "How could you possibly even
summarize what happened in this movie?  It's non-stop problems &
anxiety.  This movie is basically the /Polar Express/"

After the movie, we took a short quesadilla break to let our heart
rates drop back down to normal.  Marissa and I chit chatted in the
kitchen while we waited for the cast iron skillet to heat.  I rifled
through our cabinet, carefully selecting three or four hot sauces I
wanted to sample with my quesadilla.  "We don't have any good plates
to sample hot sauce with," I griped.  Marissa laughed, "What exactly
are you looking for?"  "I don't know," I whined.  "I like to taste
just a few drops from each, but I don't want them to mix together."
Marissa flashed a smile and flew down the stairs into the basement.  A
few moments later she returned, holding a plastic paint pallet.  "This
would be perfect.  I used to use these for water color, but I don't do
that as much anymore.  You can have this one."  The idea was
hilarious, but so perfect and practical.  I added a few drops of hot
sauce in each little dimple and stacked a few wedges of quesadilla in
the middle.  "This is genius," I declared.  I was like the Bob Ross of
hot sauces.

We settled in on the couch again and watched some of Paul Rudd's new
show, /Living with Yourself/.  We have one episode left, but as long
as the stick the ending, it's already one of our favorite shows.  I've
said it before, and I'll say it again now - everything Paul Rudd
touches is gold.  If anything, this show has taught me that there was
room for improvement in /every/ Paul Rudd movie or tv show - he could
have been playing /two/ parts instead of only one.

This morning, Marissa is getting ready for another agility trial this
morning.  Rodney and I are hoping to shower, go grocery shopping, and
return in time to watch the Bears game at noon.  Between breaks and
after the game, we're going to make some pizza.  Rodney also wants to
go to the park.  His stuffed giraffe has a cough, and he thinks the
fresh air would be good for him.  If you think about it, having a
kneck that big, there's probably a lot that can go wrong, and a
giraffe sized soar throat must be pretty painful.  If you are friends
with Baby Giraffe on Facebook or LinkedIn, please send along your best
wishes, this is a tough one.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Watch the Bears Game, eat
pizza, and take care of the stuffed baby giraffe in your family.

*** 2019-10-28 Monday groceries, bears, and pizza

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Monday.  I'm feeling very rested this
morning.  Marissa and I went to bed at a pretty decent time, and on
top of that, I spent most of this weekend on the couch.  As a result,
I'm looking forward to getting back to work this morning.

Yesterday was pretty much a repeat of Saturday.  We all slept in, I
cooked breakfast, then Rodney and I walked to the grocery store to
pick up dinner.  Since there was a Bears game that day, we both wore
our hoodies.  A few cars honked at us walking along Atwood.  I'd like
to think it was a friendly honk.  We only needed a few things at the
store, so we were in and out of there pretty quick.  We walked briskly
down the bike path, trying to make it in time for kick-off.  We were
stopped by a small baby that wanted to see Rodney's car stroller.
"Nice ride!" the mom yelled.  "Yeah, there's not too many days left
where we can take out the convertible," I joked.  I didn't come up
with that one on the spot, that's just my go-to.  Standing around
other parents while our kids interact can get awkward, and that's no
time to try out /new/ jokes.

We got home just a few minutes after kick-off.  I turned the game on
the TV and grabbed a beer out of the fridge.  Rodney dumped his lego's
on the ground in front of the TV.  Marissa was on her way out of the
house with the dogs.  "Good luck, Ziggy," we yelled as the door closed
behind her.

Yesterday's game was pretty rough.  Our offense still wasn't clicking,
and even though we had several drives into the red zone it felt like
we still just couldn't score.  And Eddie Pineiro missed a game winning
field goal.  That one really hurt to watch.  I guess as a kicker, game
winning situations don't find you very often, and perhaps after he won
the game for us in Denver I may have had him on a bit of a pedestal,
but part of me is glad he missed that kick, because we didn't deserve
a win.  Marissa and I watched some post game interviews when she got
home.  Normally I just blow right past those, but Nagy made a lot of
calls that were under fire, and it made for an interesting Q&A time.
He even got a little heated.  Nagy was mostly getting blasted for
taking a knee with almost a minute to go, leaving it up to Eddie
(instead of running one more play and getting closer to the goal
line)..  I hate to say it, but he made the right call.  You can knock
him all you want for not having any faith in our offense, but I didn't
have any faith in them either, and the ball was spotted well within
Eddie's scoring range.

Last night as we were eating dinner, we got into an 'argument' with
Rodney over what animal was on his Bears hoodie.  "Tiger," he stated,
pointing at the orange Bears logo.  "What animal is that?" Marissa
questioned.  "Tiger," replied Rodney.  I decided to take a crack at
it.

"Hey dude, what game did we watch today?"  I asked.  "Bears game,"
Rodney said.  "And you're wearing your Bears hoodie, right?"  Rodney
nodded.  "Bears hoodie."

"What animal is that?" I asked.  "Tiger," replied Rodney.  "Well,
tigers are usually orange," Marissa added.

After dinner, Marissa put Rodney to bed and I cleaned up after dinner.
We made deep dish pizza, and packing deep dish leftovers is always
kind of a riddle, and I have yet to solve it.  The best I've come up
with is cutting individual slices after it's cooled, arranging the
slices opposite and adjacent to each other forming a parallelogram,
then wrapping the whole mess in a glob of foil.  I try to even crimp
the foil around the crust so the pizza keeps its shape, then slip the
whole mess into a plastic bag.  It works, but I'm always a little
ashamed keeping my wad of plastic and tinfoil in the fridge at work
when there is so much pressure around recycling and keeping a small
waste footprint.

On a high note with regards to storing deep dish leftovers, I invented
a new way to cut the pizza.  I used to saw the slices, which would
crack the delicate crust and sometimes even snap it off, but last
night I got my biggest, sharpest knife, put the pizza in the middle of
the cutting board, and chopped it in a swift motion.  The slice
separated cleaning, crust in tact.  "Somebody's you just gotta 'fruit
ninja' it," I laughed.

Marissa and I finished watching /Living with Yourself/, then we tidied
up the house for an hour or so.  We finished the night by watching my
movie pick /Back to School/.  It's part of the series of movies I've
found that were filmed in Madison.  We're only about a third into it,
but this light-hearted Rodney Dangerfield comedy is hitting the spot.
In the movie, UW Madison is renamed "Great Lakes College".

That's my time.  I have to head outside and catch a bus.  Hope you
have a great Monday, and don't forget that Halloween is coming up this
week!

*** 2019-10-29 Tuesday typos and kanye

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're having a great Tuesday, wherever
you are.  Where I'm at now, it's 7:29 AM, and there's a bit of snow on
the ground - which is exciting, because it feels like with all the
extra light bouncing around the morning is just a little brigther.

This morning I have a lot of things rolling around in my head.
Yesterday wasn't really that recap worthy.  I took Rodney to the
grocery store, came home, then made some hashbrowns with tilapia
cooked over onions.  I grated the potatoes with a cheese grater and
wrung out all the water with cheese cloth, then cooked them in hot
cast iron.  They were a little too salty, but I was just grateful that
they browned and actually formed a little patty.  Before and during
dinner was a little rough - Rodney had kind of a bad behavior day, and
Marissa and I are still a little exhausted from dealing with it, and
it just doesn't feel right to make light of it.  Putting him to bed
last night, we ended things on a high note, and if all goes according
to plan we'll be back to goofing around in the grocery store, cooking
dinner, and making jokes around the dinner table.

Another topic that is rolling around in my head this morning is
typos.  These journal entries I make every morning usually have one or
two mistakes.  Sometimes when I have trouble focusing or waking up, I
publish an entry with about a dozen mistakes.  Typos make things hard
to read, and I avoid them.  Usually, after running the publishing
script and walking over to the bus stop, the first thing I do is read
the entry.  Yesterday, I cringed at how many errors were in my post.
One or two doesn't bother me, but if it gets to the point where it
hinders what I'm trying to get across, that's a problem for me.

You might ask, "why don't you just proofread it?"  I try to.  I used
to write for twenty minutes in the morning, get about 800 words, then
I'd take about 10 minutes to edit it down.  I tend to write too many
words, so the final product would be around 700 words.  These days,
the more I write, the more comfortable I feel filling 1000, so much so
that 700-800 just leaves a bad taste in my mouth.  Eventually I chose
to just sacrifice the last few minutes of proof reading for the sake
of writing more.  Writing clears my head, it feels good, and while I
try not to leave any typos, I don't want to sacrifice extra time in
the morning.

I also feel the need to point out that a typo isn't a lack of
understanding.  Typo's are a mechanical failure.  Even though I might
type "though" instead of "thought", or "your" instead of "you're", I
know which word you're supposed to use.  I know my grammar, and unless
you bring an eight grade grammar book over and challenge me to a
shootout, you'll just have to trust me.  I'm one of the only adults I
know that can still diagram sentences.  I care about grammar.  It's
part of the way I think.

Just wanted to throw that out there.  To sum up, I'm aware that I
leave typos behind.  This is a very personal medium, which is why I
choose quantity over quality.  I assure you the typos are a trade-off
of time and focus - not a result of me being stupid.

Man, another thing kicking around in my head is this new Kanye album.
The reviews finally started coming out, and they're not looking good.
My favorite music reviewer even gave it a 4/10.  I love the album, and
that doesn't change; but the critical reception of Jesus Is King has
already put things in perspective.  I was sobered remembering how much
I enjoyed watching Chance's /The Big Day/ get ripped apart by the
presses, and how much I egged everyone on.  I did the same thing with
Eminem's latest album.

I still love the album, but the first time you listen to something
after the reviews come out always feels a little different - like
you're burying your head in the sand because you're afraid to confront
something.

I think the album is good, and people will grow to like it over time.
If you read the reviews, it seems like people are too hung up on the
concept to enjoy the music.  Yes - whether or not Kanye's faith is
genuine, he's not qualified to lead you in worship.  Attending a
church and leading it are not the same thing.  The lyrics are a little
misguided.  Even wrapped in the robes of religion, he still finds
plenty of places for his ego to shine brighter.  But Kanye's depravity
and ego has always been a part of his music.  One of his albums is
called "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy."  He has a song called "I
am a god," for crying out loud.

But I'd encourage you to just listen to the music.  Do your best to
forget about Kanye, how expensive his silly ripped t shirts are, and
how many times he's delayed the release of this very brief album.
Just listen to the album.

So that's my time.  As always, thanks for reading.  I had a lot of
things to get out of my head this morning, and as a result I'm feeling
lighter and happier.

*** 2019-10-30 Wednesday strongbad, halloween, green potatoes, and calendar hell

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  And happy "Hallow's Eve Eve".  This morning
there is still a bit of wet snow on the ground, and as I begin writing
I can hear the family start to wake up.  From Rodney's room, I can
hear suspicious thumping sounds, books falling on the floor, and draws
sliding open.  Truth be told, we don't know what he does in there.
Marissa's phone alarm just went off.  In a few minutes, everyone will
probably make their way downstairs, but for now, I'm alone in the
dining room writing.

I'm working from home today, so I chose to spend the extra half hour
sitting here, drinking coffee, and watching Strongbad emails.  As I
was sitting here enjoying the dated mind numbing Internet humor, I
suddenly started to worry about the longevity of the site.  All the
videos on the website are flash.  While at the time, that was the new
hotness, flash is now so marginalized that you can't even play the
website in Firefox without first accepting a warning popup and
explicitly clicking the animated widget.  As the toon played, I flung
a note into my side project ideas list: /archive all strongbad emails
as videos/.  We'll see if I can get time to do that anytime soon.

/Sip/.  I think it's going to be a good day today.  I'm working from
home all day, and then in the afternoon we're all going to put on our
Spider-Man costumes and go trick or treating around the capital
square.  Last year, we missed it.  This year, our family calendar is
on point, and we're ready to squeeze as many fun memories as possible
out of this Halloween.  There's something that makes me and Marissa a
little worried though - Rodney has yet to try on his Halloween
costume.  It's not the casual kind of costume that you can slip on and
forget that you're wearing it either.  It's a full spandex Spider-Man
costume.  Marissa and I have worn ours around the house to try to
pique his interest, but whenever it came down for Rodney to try his
own, he'd give us a firm "no /daaase/" (that's Rodneese for /no
thanks/).  At least he was polite about it.  There's an old home movie
of me throwing a fit on our patio when I was three years old (or
five?).  I was wearing a Yogi Bear costume, and I wasn't excited about
it.  I wonder if now as an adult I'll get to see the other end of a
prime toddler Halloween meltdown.  Time will tell I guess.  I have a
feeling that he'll get into the idea once he sees Marissa and I are
doing it, and worse comes to worse, I can just go collect candy for
him as a proxy.  At least as people wonder about the jackass in the
Spider-Man costume asking for his share of the kids' candy, my true
identity will be concealed.

After trick or treating on the square, we're going to find a place
downtown to eat dinner.  Our choice will most definitely be motivated
by looking as out of place as possible.  "Maybe Graze?" suggested
Marissa.  The beautiful glass building.  The polite staff.  The
upscale dinner menu.  It sounds like the perfect place to cause
trouble.  I don't know what it is about owning a Spider-Man mask that
makes me want to be a public menace.  That definitely flies in the
face of what the mask is supposed to stand for.

Yesterday was a pretty good day too.  Rodney, Marissa, and I all
patched things up after the fallout on Monday.  Rodney was in a very
good mood when we went shopping.  He even figured out how to push the
cart.  As I picked out some potatoes, he eagerly insisted he throw
them in the cart himself, one at a time.  One of them rolled on the
floor, but before he noticed it I scooped it up and added it with the
others.  "Nice job dude - perfect!"  I assured him.  I rewarded for
his good behavior with a chocolate egg - one of those Kinder Eggs with
the tiny choking hazards inside.  When we got home, Marissa rolled her
eyes when she realized she'd have to help him assemble yet another
intricate, extremely breakable Marvel themed keychain.  A /keychain/.
Can you imagine how dumb of a toy that is for a child?  It's not like
Rodney can hook it onto his car keys.

For dinner, I made some mashed potatoes, gravy, and asparagus.  I
boiled the potatoes with chopped kale, in hopes that the end result
would be fluffy white potatoes interlaced with wilted pieces of kale,
and it almost happened - but the kale turned the water green, and the
green water turned the potatoes green.  Everything was quite green,
and underneath brown gravy, I have to admit it was a bit of an eye
sore.  It was one of those meals that tasted better than it looked.
"Just ignore the weird color," I warned as we started eating.

After Rodney went to bed, I cleaned the kitchen, and Marissa and I sat
down at the computer to go over our calendar for the month of
November.  At least that's what I thought we were doing.  Marissa just
wanted to run some weekend dog agility stuff by me, and needless to
say she got a little frustrated that I insisted we march through every
day from now until the end of November.  "When you close your eyes and
picture hell, is it just sitting here with me going over every detail
of our calendar for all of eternity?" I chided.  "OK - MARCH
20TH 2021.  WHAT TIME ARE WE EATING BREAKFAST?" Marissa added,
imitating me.

After Marissa finished her stint in family calendar purgatory with me,
we made our way to the couch to finish our movie pick, /Back To
School/.  It was a wonderful movie.  My last few picks have been a
little rough, so I was glad to finally break my slump.

That's what I got today.  Time to power on my work laptop and start
the day.  The thumping has stopped in Rodney's room, so either he fell
back asleep, or he's found something else to do.  Hope you have a
great day today, everyone.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-10-31 Thursday costumes and fudge

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone - and happy Halloween.  This morning was a
little more complicated than usual, as I had to figure out how to slip
into my Spider-Man costume and conceal all the revealing bits so it
would be work place appropriate.  I spent about five minutes
deliberating and staring at the bathroom mirror, and I finally settled
on a black pair of athletic shorts.  I think I made the right call.
Today the front of the costume wasn't looking too bad, but after I
thought to turn around and check the butt situation, things were
looking pretty HD back there, if you catch my drift.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I worked from home all day, and took
a break to meet Rob at Glass Nickel for some lunch.  Afterwards, I
knocked out some more work, then decided to put on my costume for my
last meeting of the day, which earned a nice laugh.  Truth be told,
it's really comfortable in this thing.  It feels like something that
you would wear while running outside, except it covers your fingers.
But it's warm, and I definitely don't feel naked (although without the
black shorts, I assure you I look naked).

After work, we all put our Halloween costumes on.  Rodney was not
having it - it took lots of time to ease him into the idea, and
through literal kicking and tears, getting his costume on one leg,
arm, and finger at a time.  What really complicated the whole thing
was that Marissa and I were already in costume at this point.  I could
imagine that if you were peering into our house during that noisy half
hour, seeing Spider-Man and Spider-Woman rough up a screaming toddler
would have been quite the site.

After Rodney got his suit on, we all sat on the couch and cooled down
with an episode of Blippi.  I jumped around the living room to get
some laughs out of him, and Rodney slowly warmed up to the idea.  We
bundled up and jumped in the car, making our way downtown.

Looking around the square, Marissa started to get nervous.  "So just
updating you all, I don't see anyone in costume yet," she said.  "It's
OK, everyone is probably just on State Street or something," I assured
her.

We made our way to State street.  There was still no costumes to be
seen.  We ducked into an ally to avoid the chilly wind while Marissa
consulted her phone.  "So it was last week.  Trick or Treating for the
kids downtown was on the 23rd," Marissa summarized.  We were a week
late.  Rodney, standing there in his spider-man costume holding an
empty bucket was none the wiser.

After a quick family meeting outside the Orpheum, we decided to just
get some fudge instead.  "Dude, the only thing better than a bucket
filled with candy is a bucket full of fudge," I assured Rodney.  We
turned into the fudge shop and picked out some chocolate covered
pretzels, some fudge, and a bear claw - that was for me, for later.

As we paid for our treats, we chatted with the owner, who was nice
enough to offer us some caramel apple samples.  It turns out we knew
the guy through a friend.  We told them about how we thought the kids
were trick or treating on the square and were getting fudge in lieu of
candy.

"Well here, we have some extra candy too," he said, grabbing a bag
from the back.  Rodney held out his paint bucket and repeated my words
quietly - /Tricker-Treat/.  Marissa carried on the conversation.  "I'm
just worried that we stick out like a sore thumb - I feel like
everyone can tell we made a mistake."

"Nah, you just look like fun people," he said closing the fudge case.

We left the fudge shop and walked back into the square.  We decided to
eat out at the old fashion.  I put on my mask, and put Rodney on my
shoulders, and we got plenty of fist bumps and /Hey Spidey!/'s along
the way.

We ate dinner at the Old Fashioned, then made our way to the car.  I
decided to scare Marissa by putting on my mask and jumping on the hood
of the car after everyone climbed in.  She decided to scare me in
return by slowly backing the car out while I was on top.  She called
my bluff, probably knowing that I couldn't really see anything with my
mask on.  I flopped off the car and got in.

I kept my suit on while I put Rodney to bed.  As I guided Rodney
through his bedtime routine, I noticed that he addressed me as
/Spider/, and was more prompt than usual with following instructions.
Maybe the suit commands an extra sense of authority.

After I came down stairs, I chatted with Marissa, who was on the couch
gulping down a sparkling water.  "Is it just me or was that dinner way
too salty?" she complained.  "Oh I'm completely parched, and I just
got the soup." I assured her.

I finally took off my suit so I could knock out my chores for the
evening.  I earned extra husband points by dicing the rest of
Marissa's red onion in the fridge - that's part of her /salad stash/.
She joked that she expected me to just throw everything out.  "I
thought about it," I laughed.  "But then I'd just have to buy it all
again."

This morning, I'm wearing the suit to work, and after test driving it
yesterday, I've put plenty of thought into how I'll get through the
day.  Since touch screens are a lot harder to use, I'm even bringing
my own wireless mouse.  Today should be a mostly regular work day, but
I'm pretty sure there is also a Halloween party mixed in there.  I'm
not going to lie to you, readers.  I like wearing the suit - not just
because it's comfortable, but I like feeling a little like Spider-Man.
I feel like I could walk outside and foil a mugging, or stop a runaway
subway - as long as I'm not wearing the mask, I can barely walk in a
straight line with that thing on my face.

Happy Halloween, everyone.  Stay safe out there!

** 2019-11 November

*** 2019-11-01 Friday halloween

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone - and Happy November 1st!  It's exciting to
begin a new month, even if this next month will be darker, colder, and
a little busier.  From the last time we glanced at our calendar,
Marissa and I realized that this coming weekend is the last empty one
we have in a while.  For us, November will be lots of driving,
visiting, hosting, and - of course - cooking.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  I wore my Spider-Man suit all
day, and had a lot of fun doing regular things with my mask on.  I
kept it on my desk all day, and I put it on to get coffee refills,
attend meetings, and pick up lunch from Quizno's.  In the morning, I
went down to the seventh floor for a bagel and mimosa with my teammate
Josh, who was dressed like a vampire.  While mingling, I bumped into
an IT guy, who was also dressed liked Spider-Man.  And despite our
costumes, you could definitely tell we both worked in the tech sector
because we immediately - instinctively - re-enacted that one
Spider-Man meme where [[https://i.imgur.com/1WU8ron.jpg][they are pointing at eachother]].  After work, I
took Rodney to the grocery store.  He was pretty upset with me that I
didn't wear the mask while driving, and I was having a hard time
getting across why that would be a bad idea.

We wanted to have plenty of time for trick or treating, so just picked
up some pasta, red sauce, and pancietta.  And of course, We got plenty
of chuckles and high fives wandering around Hy-Vee.  One thing I
started to pick up on was how awkward people can be about
acknowledging your Halloween costume.  It felt like people ran up to
me and spoke before they thought about what to say.  People would just
point, or run up to me and make a noise, like /AHHHHH/.  I think what
learned from yesterday is that the best thing to do when you see an
exotic costume out in the wild is to just enjoy it from a distance.
Or at the very least, keep your cool.  As Rodney and I paid for our
groceries, the cashier very calmly asked "Did you find everything
alright, Spider-Man?"  Finally, some respect for the mask.

When we got home, I cooked pasta while Marissa wrestled Rodney into
half of his suit.  You'd think he would have learned to associate
"uncomfortable costume" with "limitless chocolate and candy" by now,
but he was just as reluctant about wearing it as he was the day
before.  Meanwhile, in full super hero regalia, I was browning
pancietta and grating parmesan cheese.

We ate dinner, then Rodney and I decided to hit the streets.  A few
trick or treaters came by before dinner, but things had really started
to slow down.  Rodney and I bundled up, and Marissa agreed to stay
behind and man the door.  Rodney and I walked a few houses up our
street.  There were some neighbors standing outside by a little
campfire, and they approached us with a bowl of candy.  Rodney was
silently upset, so I did most of the talking.  They gave Rodney some
candy, then my neighbor turned to me and asked, "You want a beer
Spider-Man?"  He filled a red cup from a miniature keg and handed it
to me.  "I can promise you, it's cold," he laughed.

Rodney and I visited a few more houses, but he seems pretty upset.  I
stopped on the sidewalk and asked him what was wrong.  He whimpered
something about getting momma.  "Do you want to go home and get
momma?"  His eyes lit up as he took the initiative and started walking
home.

We knocked on our door.  From the window, I saw Marissa spring up off
the couch, pausing /The Office/ reruns.  "I think he's mad we left you
at home," I reported.

"Oh thank goodness," Marissa said in a sigh of relief.  "No trick or
treaters, and I was starting to get bored.  I was actually cleaning
out my inbox."

We jumped in the car and drove a little further down the street,
parking by a small cluster of festively decorated houses.  There were
more neighbors standing outside by a fire.  Rodney, who was in silent
protest up until now, was suddenly running his mouth and babbling
about costumes, candy, and trick or treating.  He proudly marched up
the steps of the next house, leaving us behind.  As the neighbor
dropped some candy in his bucket, he waved and said HAPPY HALLOWEEN.
"Well look who's suddenly Mr. Halloween over here," I teased.

We hit a few more houses until the cold got the best of us.  We went
home, emptied our candy onto the table, then snapped a few pictures of
us in costume.  We took a few of each other, then spent about five
minutes trying to set up the camera on the stairs with a timer so we
could get a family shot.  As these things usually work out, the
picture we spent the most time on getting was the most unusable.  Kind
of unsettling actually.  We're off center, a bit out of focus, and
Rodney looks perturbed.  Like a bizarre man & wife Spider-Man
kidnapping ransom photo.

We snacked on candy and watched a little more of Frozen.  After
Rodney's eyes started to droop, I put him to bed and changed out of my
costume.  After wearing the spandex suit for literally the entire day,
it felt good to change into regular clothes.

I cleaned the kitchen, then Marissa and I crashed on the couch to
watch some YouTube.  We watched a cooking video for making forest
mushroom cream sauce, then Nick Offerman's Hot Ones interview.  We
closed out the night by finishing our movie pick /Romeo & Juliet/ -
the Leonardo DiCaprio version.

So that's what I got.  Today is a regular work day.  Heading into the
weekend, I'm very mindful of how precious an empty Saturday is.
Marissa and I are still racking our brains for how to spend it, but at
the very worst, we're just going to hang around the house, and maybe
cook some mushroom and cream sauce tonight.

Have a great day, everyone.  Oh, and I just noticed I journaled every
day in October.  For those of you who read every journal in October,
thanks for the loyalty.  Here's to beginning a colder, darker,
heartier month!

*** 2019-11-02 Saturday french toast

Dear Journal,

I woke up and glanced at my phone.  It was 8:30.  I wouldn't get out
of bed until 9, biding my time between snuggling with Ziggy and
reading gossip about the Chicago Bears on reddit.  Eventually, Ziggy
wriggled free and leapt off the bed.  She was hungry.  Waiting at the
door, she quietly yipped at me until I too emerged from the bedsheets.

As I unlocked the baby gate in front of the stairs, I could hear
Rodney stirring in his room.  I peeked my head in through his door.
He was standing on his bench staring through the parted curtains and
out of his window, watching cars whiz by on East Washington.  He
looked content.  I let both dogs out, then flung their big bin of
kibble on the counter, moving a few dirty dishes aside.  There was
still a stack of pans, mixing bowls, and ramekins piled next to the
sink from last nights dinner - the lingering smell of cream and
mushroom still hovering around the sink.

I cracked the back door ajar.  Ziggy came racing into the kitchen,
followed closely but less urgently by Ollie.  Ziggy spotted the bin of
dog food on the counter, stood on her hind legs, and lunged toward the
counter as high as she could.  I removed the lid, and filled an even
scoop for Ollie.  I took a few steps toward his bowl, and Ziggy
scurried between my legs.  She knew she couldn't have any of Ollie's
food, but she watched closely as I filled the bowl and Ollie started
eating - almost as if she was jealously counting every piece of kibble
he got.  I walked back to the bin, Ziggy scurrying behind me.  She
held her breath, and by the time the first piece of food touch her
bowl she had already began eating.

As the dogs finished eating, I went upstairs and leaned into Rodney's
room.  He was still standing by the window, but hearing the door creak
he turned and smiled.  "OH, HEY DA," he said cheerily.

As I picked him up, laid him on the changer, and proceeded to discard
his diaper, Rodney filled the room with incoherent stories, dreams,
and thoughts.  He talked about taking his cousins on a water slide,
sleeping with the dogs in bed, and completing a puzzle.  As he
finished his morning dream report, I pulled his pajama pants of his
waist, picked him up, and set him on the floor.  He ran downstairs and
sat on the couch.  I turned the TV on for him and went in the kitchen,
stopping to fill up a cup of coffee.  The coffee maker was still
hissing and burbling, but the carafe was full and inviting.  I took a
sip of coffee, quietly savoring my favorite part of the day.

Marissa sleepily had asked for French toast the night before we
drifted off to sleep.  I filled a bowl with milk and added a pinch of
salt, stirring with my finger.  I grabbed the eggs out of the fridge
and placed them on the counter.  One by one, I cracked five eggs into
the bowl.  On the fourth, a little piece of shell slipped through my
fingers, but I fished it out with my pinky nail.  I added some salt,
then grabbed my whisk out of the dishwasher.  I took a moment to
admire the firm, pale yolks suspended in clear egg white before
destroying them.  I mixed vigorously.

I lifted the heavy cast iron pan off its metal hook and placed it on
the stove.  The burner clicked three times, then ignited, quietly
roaring underneath the pan as I turned the dial to medium low.  I cut
a piece of butter and set it in the middle of the pan.  It started to
melt, and gently float around the pan.

I sliced the end off the bread and nibbled it.  It was chewy in the
inside, stale on the outside, and it would make for perfect french
toast.  I sliced four even pieces and carried them to the stove on a
plastic plate.  One by one, I plunged them into the cool milk, then
into the cool eggs, shaking them above the bowl to let excess run off
the slices of bread.  I laid them evenly across the center of the pan.
I could hear the butter seething underneath the slices.  The beaten
egg started to leak out from the bottom of the bread slices, forming a
ghostly egg white halo.

I leaned into the living room, where Rodney was fixated on the TV.
"He dude, will you go get momma?"  I asked.  "Tell her breakfast is
almost ready."

Rodney scooted to the edge of the couch, then began carefully walking
up the stairs.  As he disappeared around the corner, I heard him
repeating my words to himself, "... tell her breakfast is almost
ready."

I made my way into the kitchen.  Smelling brown butter and cooked
eggs, I grabbed a rubber spatula and gently lifted the corner of a
slice on the outside.  The slice, now /half/ french toast, was dark,
and still glistening with butter.  I delicately flipped each of the
pieces with a spatula, catching them with my finger.  I could hear
Marissa making her way down the stairs.  "Breakfast is almost ready,"
I announced.

A few minutes later, I lifted another corner.  The slice was now
brown, candied, and glistening in butter.  I flipped each piece into a
metal bowl and liberally sprinkled the pile with sugar and cinnamon.
I tossed the bowl over the sink.  Some sugar and cinnamon escaped,
scattering on the floor.

I stacked the pieces of toast onto a little plate and set it on the
table.  Marissa was helping Rodney into his seat.  Her eyes widened in
anticipation as I placed the plate of french toast in the center of
the table.  "Dig in," I said.  I walked back into the kitchen to make
another batch.

*** 2019-11-03 Sunday groceries and gumbo

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning I'm feeling a little thrown off
by the time change, even though this was 'the good one'.  I feel like
that extra hour of sleep was swallowed into oblivion, and I feel more
frazzled than I'm supposed to.

This morning we're going to try to make it to early church, which is
exactly one hour from now.  The plan is to write for a half hour, then
somehow shower, change, and get Rod dressed and fed in... fifteen
minutes?  Sounds totally doable, right?  At least Rod's breakfast is
pretty easy.  On the weekends we like to eat things like bacon,
scrambled eggs, and Dutch babies, but on most mornings he just eats a
half of a stroopwaffel and a dollop of yogurt.

The coffee is just about to finish brewing.  It was a risky decision
starting this journal entry without any caffeine, but this morning it
was necessary.  I'm relieved that I can finally pour a cup and start
to feel human again.

/Sip/.  OK, maybe it wasn't quite finished brewing yet.  That's a cup
of super coffee, but it will get the job done.

Let's recap yesterday.  Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.
I had high hopes for redoing the IT shelf, but the day was just kind
of lost to cooking, errands, and relaxing on the couch - which is just
fine too, if you ask me.  In the morning I cooked some french toast,
then we all ran some errands as a family.  We first swung by the
flower shop.  The art fair was going on and one of Marissa's Instagram
homies had a booth this year.  We checked out her booth, then spent a
few minutes wandering around.  The greenhouse was warm and humid, and
it was nice to take a break from the cold, even though we had only
been outside for a few minutes.

Afterwards, we went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner and other random
things.  I always forget how busy Hy-Vee gets on the weekends.  Lately
I've been taking Rodney to the Jenny Street market on Saturdays.  I
think because Jenny Street is a little smaller, it's harder to buy in
bulk, so you don't get as many of the one-day-a-week shoppers that
crash the place on Saturday morning.

Me lazily walked around the store, working through our grocery list.
For dinner, I was planning on making chicken and sausage gumbo.  I had
never had gumbo, and was excited to make it and try it for the first
time.  For a side, I was also planning on making pork belly bits
braised in wine.

We packed the car with our groceries, and since it was almost exactly
/refrigerator temperature/ outside, we decided to park the car at the
Grover street mall and get some pizza for lunch.  We ordered some
slices, and found a quiet booth inside.  Afterwards, we walked around
the new complex, which had a few more stores and developments since we
last saw.  Marissa and I continue to be perplexed at what the ultimate
goal of this renovation is.  The pizza shop was a solid choice, but
the rest of the building is a wide open warehouse.  There were picnic
tables set up, and then a random speaking venue tucked in the corner,
with a small stage and microphone, and a bunch of chairs pointing in
the same direction.  Wandering upstairs, there were a few more shops
and offices tucked behind narrow corridors.  All throughout the
building, they set out some old original factory equipment for
display, but everything was crudely labeled and just sitting on the
floor.

"This place is like part shopping mall, part office building, and part
half-assed museum," I remarked.  "And why would you set out all this
stuff on the floor if you're not supposed to touch it?"

Maybe I have nothing to complain about.  If we get an Ian's pizza out
of this, it was worth it - even if the rest of the building becomes a
weird disjointed physical manifestation of somebody's pinterest board.

We got home, and I put Rodney down for a nap and started cooking.  The
gumbo needed a few hours on the heat, so I basically had to make the
whole thing by 4:30.  I made a dark roux from smoking hot vegetable
oil, which was very exciting, and used it to deep fry the slices
celery, onions, and bell pepper.  I mixed in chicken stock, seared
chicken thighs, chopped sausage, and a whole New Glarus Staghorn beer.
Per [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nORg_aXMsmA][Isaac Toup's instruction]], I also kept adding black pepper to the
pot until my arm got tired.

The gumbo turned out really well, but it wasn't a very popular choice
with the family.  Marissa thought it was too soupy, but appreciated it
when the thick gravy was strained out.  Rodney was rubbing his tongue,
yelling "SPICY!"

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed and did the dishes.  One of my
favorite parts of making soup is cleaning up afterwards.  I rinsed out
my Dutch oven and poured the slurry through a strainer, rinsing with
hot water.  Turning an entire pot of hot soup into a small, condensed
puck of solids is gratifying.  It's also a great opportunity to pick
through the ingredients and examine them up close.  It's like a soup
autopsy.

That's my time - and my target word count.  Hope you all have a
wonderful day today, and put that extra hour of sleep to good use.
Today, we're going to church, then hanging out with some friends to
watch the Bears game.  Happy Sunday, and I'll see you all in the next
entry!

*** 2019-11-04 Monday daylight savings, it, and nesting

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Wherever you are, I hope you are finally
getting adjusted to the time change.  Complaints about daylight
savings aside, at least it falls on a weekend, so you have a day or
two to sort yourself out.  It's 7:28 AM where I'm writing this, and
that feels just about right.  Rodney, on the other hand, is wide
awake, throwing his stuffed animals around.  I take it he isn't quite
adjusted yet.

It's much brighter this morning.  Sometimes I forget that that's kind
of the point behind daylight savings.  It's supposed to give us more
light in the morning.  Or is it?  That's one of those things I'd
really have to sit back and think about, but what's the point?

Yesterday was a pretty full & fun day.  We made it to early church,
and as we were picking up Rodney at the end of the service, the Sunday
school teacher said Rodney is getting really comfortable playing with
other kids.  Usually, before we get him, Marissa and I like to spy for
a few minutes.  You very rarely get to observe your kid like that, and
it's interesting to see what they do when you're not around.  Our last
church actually had a two way mirror.  It kind of reminded me of a
psychology lab.

After church, we went home for a bit.  Rodney watched some TV while I
cleaned up my AWS bill - which was long overdue.  AWS is scary
business because most of the billing goes off of usage, so most months
it's only a few cents here and there, but I guess conceivably if any
of the 8 or so silly websites I own suddenly got popular, I could be
looking at a nasty bill.  I moved a handful of sites over to the much
thriftier github hosting, and for only having about an hour at home
before our next outing, that was pretty good.  I cut the bill in half,
from $6 a month to $3 and change.  /High fives self/.

We all jumped in the car and drove over to Alex and Cassie's house.
Rod brought his bilingual airplane & airport set.  We ate pizza,
knocked back a few beers, and watched the Bears go out with a whimper
against the Eagles.  Watching the game with other people made it a
little easier to stomach how bad the offense was playing yesterday.
It was also great catching up with Alex and Cassie.  They have a cool
place downtown, and you can see the capital right out their living
room window.

After the game, we went home, and Marissa and Rodney took a long nap
until dinner.  I was thinking about cooking something, but Marissa
talked us into just having the leftovers from our fridge - which was a
good decision.  Getting a break from cooking, I had plenty of energy
to straighten up the house.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I worked on the IT corner.  I
powered everything off while she sanded and drilled three wood
shelves.  I held the boards and brackets in place while she screwed
them to the wall.  About an hour and a half later, I had everything
plugged in, finally hitting the big red button.  I was very pleased
that all of my home infrastructure passed the 'reboot test'.  Normally
when you turn everything off, then on again, at least one thing needs
to be manually reconfigured, but last night the IT gods smiled upon me
and everything gracefully warmed back up again.  The shelves look
pretty sweet, too.  I decided not to go nuts with the cable management
until I get a few missing parts, but just having all the crap sitting
on a shelf makes it look much neater.

After finishing the shelf, Marissa and I finished watching /Bridge of
Spies/.  It was a long movie, but ultimately worth it.  Tom Hanks has
the kind of face that earns your trust.  Like, if Tom Hanks were
telling a really long story, I would hang with it until the end - same
goes for his movies, I guess.

This morning, I have "nesting" on the brain.  Marissa just finished
her first trimester.  And by "trimester", I mean a third of a human
pregnancy.  We found out we were having another baby - well - one
trimester ago, and as I'm about to tell my work later today, I figured
I might as well also tell the ol' blog about it too.  While I have big
news, I don't have a lot of reflections this morning.  Remember, I've
known for a while.  But trust me, I hate it when there are big things
going on in my life that I can't write about.  I like this journal to
be as porous with my personal life as possible, and plus there were
plenty of mornings when I didn't have /anything/ to talk about, and I
could have used the extra material.

But back to what I was saying - this week, "nesting" is top of mind.
As I was walking through the house rebooting things before the shelf,
it came to my attention that some of the IT in the house has been
neglected.  I think the last time I threw a weekend at our home
network was when I mounted everything to the wall.  It's due for
another pass, especially with Christmas coming up.  Last night before
bed I was adding things to my amazon wishlist.  I think I'd like to
move the router pieces into an "open air case", which is basically
just a metal bracket that holds all the parts as a stable unit without
a big computer tower.  I just learned there was a name for it last
night.  Don't you just love when you find out there's a name for the
possibly imaginary thing you're picturing in your head?

I'm also a little behind on chores.  I keep up with my daily and
weekly chores pretty well, but the house could use some love before it
gets cold outside.  Last night, I was kicking around the idea of
establishing a cleaning power hour in the evenings - something like
9pm to 10pm - where I just pick one neglected corner of the house and
knock it out of the park.  Marissa rolled her eyes as I interrupted
myself, assuring her "I wouldn't bug you about this, this is just a
'me' thing.  You have enough to do,".

So that's what I got today.  Wherever you are, I hope you have a great
morning and a great rest of the day.  I hope you take advantage of the
last remaining days of above freezing temperature.  Go for a walk in
the rain, or drive somewhere with your windows open - it's going to be
a long winter!

*** 2019-11-05 Tuesday movember, ki gong, starbucks, and fire extinguishers

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone.  Hope you're doing well today on this sunny,
chilly Tuesday morning.  Last night, my wife cut my hair, and keeping
the personal grooming momentum going, I also shaved - but not the
beard.  I'm growing things out for no-shave-november.  A few weeks
ago, my coworker sent me a link to our work's "Movember" charity team
and I joined.  I think the idea is that a bunch of guys grow silly
mustaches and beards, and people donate money to charity in approval.
I'm happy to tag a long for the ride, especially if now I get a more
concrete excuse to look like a wild man all month.  So enjoy the clean
shaven me while you still can, things are going to get hairy this
month - all for charity of course.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I had plenty of things to do in the
morning, including filing for paternity leave in the spring, figuring
out insurance stuff, and going to a few meetings, but I remembered to
make time for the half hour Ki Gong session on the ninth floor.  I was
delighted to find that Justin, our instructor, switched up the routine
a bit.  After the half hour of meditative movements and breathing, I
commended him for the new set.  "That routine was created by a Chinese
general in the year 1000," he explained.  "It was designed to keep
their archers relaxed, and to give relief to the men who had been
marching all day in heavy armor."  I suddenly had a clear picture in
my head.  As part of the session, we breathed deeply while miming a
bow and arrow, and we bounced on our toes, stamping our heels into the
ground.  I can't say I was wearing heavy armor, or marching all day at
the bidding of a warlord, but maybe my suffering as an office worker
compares if we're willing to embellish the metaphorical route.  "But
still useful to us - we all still march in heavy armor, in our own
way," I said smugly.  "How philosophical!" Justin laughed.

I grabbed lunch at Starbucks.  I asked them to heat up a ham and swiss
pannini, and I ordered an iced tea.  Eating at Starbucks is a guilty
pleasure, but I'm more in it for the nostalgia than for the food
itself.  It takes me back to working late nights, skimming an extra
sandwich off the 'expired' pile and finding a quite corner of the
store to spend my lunch.  Even though I'm in a different place working
a much different job, quietly eating my pannini in Starbucks feels
exactly the same - if not a little better, since I'm no longer limited
to the sandwiches that expired.

After work, Marissa, Rodney, and I went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner.
The deal was that I would wait in line to get a flu shot while Marissa
and Rodney picked up supplies for taco dinner.  I filled out some
paperwork, then waited almost a whole hour.  Marissa and Rodney waited
with me for the last ten minutes before Marissa finally gave me the
/lets get the hell out of here/ eyes.  Even though I had every right
to throw a little salt at the lady behind the counter, my Midwestern
sensibilities got the best of me.  "I'm really sorry," I said.  "I
ordered a flu shot, but we gotta get goin', really sorry about this."

I watched TV on the couch with Rod while Marissa made tacos.  It was a
wonderful meal, and it hit the spot.  For all the cooking we do, I
don't have a very deep bench when it comes to Mexican food, so tacos -
even simply made with ground beef, cheese, lettuce, and tomatoes -
have an exciting presence on our dinner table.

We put Rod to bed, then I got to work on chores.  Last night was the
first night I tried my new Monday through Thursday nesting 'power
hour'.  Marissa rolled her eyes when she saw it on our family
calendar.  "You should move that to your calendar - it makes us look a
lot busier than we are," she said.  That was a fair ask.

For power hour, I cleaned the landing by our back door, which had kind
of turned into an awkward little dumping ground for things stuck in
limbo between the basement and the main floor.  The middle shelf was
spilling out with half empty boxes of garbage bags and parchment
paper, and the bottom shelf was filled with swiffer wet jet refills
that - ironically - were covered in dust and dog hair.  After I had
finished that corner, I made my way to under the sink.  It wasn't
nearly as bad as I thought it would be.  We just had a few nearly
empty bottles of cleaning solution that we no longer used, and an
expired fire extinguisher.  I smiled when I saw the gauge resting on
'empty/expired'.  That meant that I could play with it outside before
discarding it.

Standing in the middle of the street, I aimed, pulled the plastic tag,
and squeezed the lever.  A chalky white dust leaked out onto the
street, catching the wind and vanishing into the night.  Very
anticlimactic, but I was grateful to have this disappointing
experience without a blazing kitchen fire in the mix.

After chores and haircuts, Marissa and I sat down at the computer to
figure out our shared calendar for the month of December.  I let her
drive this time, so the planning wouldn't be sidetracked by when we
eat breakfast and when the Bears play.

We concluded the night by watching a few minutes of /The Karate Kid/,
which is another one of those movies that I've deceived myself into
thinking I've already watched it.  I'm pretty sure this movie is
completely new to me, so no spoilers, OK?  I'll tell you one thing - I
have a feeling that rude maintenance worker he met in the apartment
building will be coming back in the story, he seemed interesting.

That's what I got today!  Hope you have a great day today.  Whatever
"armor" you're wearing and wherever you're "marching", make sure you
take some time today to breathe, empty your head, and shake out all
the stress, the Ki Gong way.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-11-06 Wednesday snow, cleaning, and timezones

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  Man, it's absolutely
beautiful outside.  It started to snow last night before we went
upstairs to bed, and this morning we woke up to the most perfect layer
of powder.  The kind that sticks to the grass, but not really to the
roads.  I'm sure the "OK that's enough - I'm sick of this now" snow is
following close behind, but for now I can't help but admire the
beauty.  Our city of Madison looks absolutely beautiful in the
winter.  It looks good in the fall too.

The snow is putting me in a very good mood today.  That, and I did a
lot of cleaning yesterday.  As part of last night's /Nesting Power
Hour/, I tackled the cubbies in which we store our shoes and coats.  I
was a little intimidated at first.  I don't remember the last time I
cleaned out those bins.  I doubt I've ever gone through them - and
over time some interesting objects slipped into the bottom of the
cubbies.  Among the rubble, I found a few lose dog treats, diapers,
screws, mosquito trap refills, and Rodney's long lost giraffe themed
monster truck.  I sent everything through the washer, and I laid out
the rest of the miscellany out on the dining room table.  To conclude
Nesting Power Hour, Marissa and I sorted through the pile.  I felt a
little like an archeologist.  

Cleaning is a lot like archeology, isn't it?  What better way to study
the layers of forgetfulness that accumulate in your own home.  I used
to think cleaning was a binary operation - a room is either /clean/ or
/messy/.  But the more I clean, the more complicated it gets.
Cleaning is about making sure people can get to the things they use.
Things people use often should be easy to retrieve and put back, and
things that are only used once in a while can be kept behind or
underneath everything else.  Cleaning my house feels like
defragmenting a hard drive - as long as nobody is using the disk, go
through everything you're storing and optimize it.

Now that we've conquered the shoes & coat cubbie, I feel like we can
do anything.  My shoes are a little damp this morning, but it was
worth it.  I'll take cold shoes if it means I also get the warm
satisfaction that I got it done.

After cleaning, Marissa and I watched some more of the /Karate Kid/.
Here's my ice cold take for the day - the /Karate Kid/ is an amazing
movie.  Marissa and I were spellbound, and having about a half hour
left in the film, I was tempted to stay of up late and power through.
But our adult sensibilities got the best of us and we just saved it
for the next night.

So what else is going on.  Today I'm heading into the office.  Usually
I work from home on Wednesdays, but there is a team lunch on our
calendar, and we have a big change we're rolling out into production
today.  I spent all day getting ready for it yesterday, filling out
website paper work, cross checking config files, and doing UTC time
math.  Timezone math - that's something that I used to dread, but it's
not so bad with enough practice.  To convert something from CST to
UTC, you just add six hours (five hours if the fall time change hasn't
happened yet).  Converting to the west coast is minus two hours.  East
coast is plus one hour.  Repetitive paper work can help you nail down
that skill, much like how the repetitive movements of painting a fense
and waxing cars made Daniel-son suddenly good at karate.

I normally walk through my day chronologically, but I guess I'm
jumping around today.  For dinner, I made an asparagus & pork Dutch
baby.  It's a quick meal, and while getting it to /puff up/ like our
more classic breakfast breakfast variety still eludes me, it still
makes for a decent dinner quiche.  We all split a castiron's worth,
with a side of apple sauce.  I also drizzled mine in hot sauce.  These
days, I'm really enjoying /The Chicago/, which is like a smokier, more
jalapeno focused version of /Los Calientes/.  It's also just a little
too runny.  Between all the bottles of hot sauce on my shelf, I've
found good heat, good consistency, and good flavor, but never all
three.  Plenty check two of the boxes; and beleive me, some of the
sauces check /none/ of the boxes.

So I guess that's what I got going on today.  Just a team lunch, big
change in the afternoon, then I'm finding something else in the house
to clean.  There are plenty of little corners in the house that could
use some attention, but I don't know if we have any harrowing 'big
bosses' remaining.  I think tonight, I'm just going to cruise around
the main floor and see how many spots I can hit, and if I run out of
ideas, I'm just going to reflash the BIOS of our dining room computer.
That counts as cleaning, right?  You can clean software too (or in
this case, firmware).

That's what I got today.  By now, I've usually hit a 1000 words, and
I'm a little dissapointed that I'm a little short.  That could be a
result of this being such a 'head-down-and-work' kind of week.  It
could also be a result of me hyphenating long descriptors like
'head-down-and-work', which will only count as one word.

Wherever you are, hope you have a great day today.  Which corner of
the house are you afraid to clean?  Think you could get it done in an
hour?  Don't fear the filth, reader.  You are a brave archeologist of
your own home, and within that junk heap there are things to be
discovered.  Most of them are probably junk - loose dog treats, unused
diapers - but who knows, you may have a long lost beloved giraffe
themed monster truck waiting to be rediscovered.  Have a great day,
everyone.

*** 2019-11-07 Thursday power outages, rodney's terms, and Intel woes

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope your Thursday is going really well.
Yesterday was a very full day - full with highs and lows.  Things
started off pretty well.  I had a very productive day, then went out
to lunch with my team at a pretty great Italian restaurant.  However
once the meat lasagna hit my stomach, things slowed down and I didn't
feel so chipper in the afternoon.  I push my change out into
production, which went great - absolutely no hiccups.  There's nothing
quite like the thrill like moving around infrastructure while people
are using it, especially when it goes completely unnoticed.
Afterwards, I had some meetings, then jumped on the bus for home.

Marissa had told me that there were a few power outages in our house
in the morning, and as a result the dining room computer was no longer
booting.  When I got home, Marissa also told me that the plex server
was down.  I trotted upstairs and saw that the LED on the server was
turned off.  I gently tapped the power button with my toe, and the
machine sprung to life.  The file server is rock solid, so I knew it
was back on without even having to check.  I was one for two, so far
so good.

Against my better judgment, I decided to try to fix the dining room
computer before leaving for Hy-Vee with Rodney.  I spent about fifteen
minutes rebooting, jiggling the video cable, futzing with monitor
settings, and trying to get into the BIOS with sheer luck by hitting
random F keys during boot.  No dice.

For those who don't remember, our dining room computer is an Intel
NUC.  It's about the size of... I don't know - maybe the kind of metal
box you'd keep your baseball cards in?  It's very small, and as a
result of the cozy form factor, the hardware doesn't give you a lot of
feedback when something is afoot.  There's just a pale blue power
button that turns off when the computer is powered off, and sometimes
it turns orange for some reason.

The computer put me in a bad mood, and probably related, the tiny
migraine I had since lunch had escalated.  I blame the salty, saucy
lunch I had, but Intel made it worse.  I popped an aspirin and head
out the door with Rodney.

Rodney was in a great mood, and on the car ride over I did my best to
match his enthusiasm for where we were going.  Rodney told me stories
of getting to pet our vet's cat while taking Ollie, and also getting
to see the neighbor's cat playing in their window when he and Marissa
got home.  So I gather it was a very cat heavy day.

We also listened to Christmas music - erm, I'm sorry, Rodney calls it
'santa music', and I'm trying to adopt the term in my own day-to-day
life.  I try to make it a habit of using Rodney's terms for
everything.  I enjoy the way he sees the world.  For example, to
Rodney there are no /sir/'s or /madam/'s.  He simply addresses
everyone as /officer/.  And while we're on the subject, police
officers drive /ambulances/.  He gets excited about what he's getting
for /chrimbus/ this year, and in the car we listen to /santa music/.

So as the santa music played on, I asked him for an update on what he
wanted for chrimbus.  He didn't seem to have any new ideas.  Parking
at Hy-Vee, Rodney suddenly got excited, seeing two officers in the
parking lot walking back to their ambulance.

Rodney and I picked up groceries.  We grabbed some kale, a french
loaf, onions, carrots, potatoes, some bacon, and some yogurt to
restock in the fridge at home.  I also treated myself to a half pint
of Hennesy.  In the winter I like to drink it with eggnog.  While I
checked out in the side liquor store of Hy-Vee, Rodney rearranged the
tiny plastic bottles of Schnapps at the checkout.  "Thanks for doing
that, mister," said the cashier gesturing toward Rodney.  "No
/prawwwwblem/, officer," said Rodney while flashing a grin.  The
cashier looked at me, puzzled, and doing my best "sounds-right-to-me"
face and we walked away to buy the rest of our groceries.

I cooked dinner while Rodney watched Blippi.  We had hutspot, kale,
and because I was feeling lazy and still burnt out from the Intel NUC
fiasco, a microwaved rotisserie chicken from the counter.  For all the
chicken I make at home, I still can't make one as delicious as those
little wrapped rotisserie chickens from Hy-Vee.  But maybe someday.

Marissa kindly offered to put Rodney to bet while I continued battling
the dining room computer.  I was relieved to discover that it was just
a problem with the HDMI driver.  The computer seemed to boot fine
(most of the time) with my VGA adapter.  I spent about an hour
following Intel's instructions for updating the BIOS (which is the
term for the very tiny amount of code that runs just before your
computer boots up, and you usually interact with it by hitting F2 or
something).  I sacrificed a USB drive, downloading a new binary from
Intel's website and rebooting - F7, RETURN, RETURN.

The screen went black for several minutes, and the pale blue power
button winked erratically.  The computer booted to our desktop.
Triumphantly, I switched the computer back to it's rightful HDMI
cable.  Blackness.  Nothing.

I felt a knotted ball of rage in my throat.  After some hushed
expletives, I plugged the VGA dongle back into the computer and
wrapped the now defunct HDMI cable around the monitor arm.  I was done
for the day.

And so concluded the day of broken things.  Now an hour and a half
sunk in my Wednesday chore evening, I reluctantly decided to scrap the
night's Nesting Power Hour.  I like to think wrestling with Intel's
BIOS counted toward that somehow.

Man, the words come easy when I'm ranting about broken software.
Today, wherever you are, I hope the computers in your life are good to
you today.  They can be helpful sometimes, but don't let them off
easy.  Resist showing gratitude when they simply do their job, because
the truth is they're probably one or two power outages away from
inexplicably not booting to HDMI anymore, no matter how recently the
BIOS was updated.

Have a great day everyone.

*** 2019-11-08 Friday serverless, home goods, and relaxing

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I have good news for you.  Today is Friday.
We made it through each of these cold early November weekdays, and
eight measly hours from now, we'll all be done for the weekend.  And
I'd just like to take a moment in this journal entry to congratulate
you.  [[https://youtu.be/3Yd3lQVbkYc][Hey - look at us.]]

Yesterday was a pretty busy day.  All morning I worked on some code.
I was playing around in AWS Step Functions.  For anyone curious about
what the whole serverless development cycle is like, I think I can
give you a good primer.  It's a lot harder.  Of course writing a few
scripts and sticking them on some server in the corner, stringing them
together with cron jobs and system packages would be harder to
maintain, but the trade-off is that things are a lot less magical.
When writing things in Lambda, the long term maintenance cost of
running code virtually disappears, but there's definitely a hefty
immediate investment in development time.  Lambdas are kind of hard to
test.  After the lambda runs, you have to go clean-up everything it
changed so you can fire it again - because it probably didn't work the
first 500 times.  And you could try to automate the clean-up - maybe
even with other lambdas, but then you have to test those.  And sure,
it's all still just regular code and you could totally run it locally,
but you also spend a lot of time crafting your state machine config,
which you can only test by firing the state machine on amazon, which
also fires your lambdas, and don't forget you have to go clean those
up every time they run.

But sometime around lunch time, I fired the Step function for the
501th time, and it worked, so in celebration, I retreated to the
kitchen to heat up some hutspot.  I also heated up some an extra bowl
of hutspot for my team to try, which may have been a questionable
decision.  Biting into mine, the kale was a little gritty, and while
it didn't really affect the taste, having a few grains of sand
bouncing between your tongue and your teeth while you chew is
unsettling.  Here's a free tip, always try food before you offer it to
other people.

After lunch, we rolled out another change to production, which went
smoothly.  This is the sixth region we've migrated, and by now they're
getting very routine - so much so that we spend the hour chit chatting
about places to eat, weekend plans, and funny stories from previous
jobs.  Of course, there's still the possibility things could go wrong,
so all the while we're all scrutinizing dashboards and metrics that
pour in from all over our infrastructure.  Sheer boredom punctuated by
moments of sheer terror.

At about 4:15, I joined some people for the downstairs happy hour, but
seeing I only had about ten minutes before I had to catch my bus, I
wisely just sipped on a La Croix as I chatted with my teammates.  At
4:25, I stepped outside and onto the bus.  There's few things in my
week that feel as good as slumping into a bus seat, knowing I don't
have to move nor talk to anyone for twenty minutes.  Sometimes I even
mutter to myself "no more jobs...", which is something Marissa and I
say to each other before going to bed.  It's a joke from a [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_MGCNil3lvQ][comedy
special]] we watched a long time ago.  "No more jobs" is something you
proudly announce to yourself after you've crawled into bed and you are
sure that there is no reason to get up until the morning.

After I got home, my entire family was wadded up on the couch in a
single blanket.  I couldn't even see Marissa underneath all the dogs,
pillows, and toddler until she sheepishly craned her neck from behind
Rodney's head.  I joined them at the end of the couch, and we finished
an episode of Blippi.

We left to go eat at Portillo's.  Thursday has become our day to run
errands and indulge in fast food.  Thursdays have also become my /lazy
day/, since I don't do any chores on Thursday and I don't have to cook
either.  We ate dinner at Portillo's, then parked the car at Home
Goods.

We walked into Home Goods looking for an office chair, a new garbage
can, and I also needed some things for the kitchen, like a new non
stick pan and one of those fancy little wooden containers to keep
kosher salt on the table.  This was also the first time I remember
going to Home Goods, and the experience was overwhelming, and a little
repulsive.  As I wandered through the crowded, ill-conceived aisles of
homemaking miscellany, I didn't feel like was in a store.  I felt like
I was wandering around in somebody's garage, or maybe even a warehouse
for evidence that the police no longer need.  A wall of knives.
Christmas lights.  Wicker baskets.  Rugs.  A decorative santa doll
even lept off the shelf and attacked my son.  At least the office
chairs were easy to find.  They were practically spilling into the
aisle.

I found my little salt container.  It wasn't on a shelf with other
salt containers; it was just sitting at the corner of a crowded shelf.
Putting it in our cart, I felt like I was stealing a knick-knack off
of somebody's desk.

We hit Target before we went home.  I was relieved to be back on
earth.  Home Goods was an interesting experience, but I don't think
I'll ever seek it out.  "You're more of a Bed Bath and Beyond kind of
person," Marissa laughed.  "But some people really get into Home
Goods, you can find good deals."  I added, "it's great if you enjoy
rifling through garbage."

After we got home, I crashed on the couch.  Ziggy joined me in my lap.
Needless to say, nesting power hour did not happen last night.  After
nodding off in the car on the way home from Target, I decided to
truncate my Nesting Power Hour cleaning ambitions and limit it to just
three days a week.  For the rest of the night, I watched youtube
videos with Ziggy curled in my lap.  But each time she would drift off
to sleep, her eyes would widen, remembering that I had a glass of
eggnog on the table.

Happy Friday, everyone.  To any Home Goods loyalists out there, I hope
I didn't offend you.  You have a valuable skill.  When our
civilization collapses, we'll need people like you to rifle through
all the abandoned, derelict buildings and find supplies.

Have a great day, a great weekend, and thanks for reading.  No more
jobs!

*** 2019-11-09 Saturday french fries, cheesesteak, and ice cream

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  This morning, I'm up a
little early to get a jump on things.  By 10 AM, we hope to have the
car packed and ready to hit the road.  This weekend, Marissa is having
a meet and greet at a restaurant up in Minnesota, so if you happen to
be in the lovely little city of Rochester this afternoon, stop by
Forager brewery and say hi!

Even though we will probably be in a hurry this morning, I still
blended the ingredients together for a Dutch baby.  At the moment, my
cast iron pan is heating up in the oven with clarified butter.  The
plan is to write a journal entry, then dump the batter in, and twenty
minutes later I'll just casually sit it out on the table to tempt
Marissa and Rodney while we're packing up.  The great thing about
breakfast is you never need to ask permission to make it.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  Throughout the day, I got two
packages delivered to me at work.  They were two pieces to the new
computer case I'm going to try on the router.  I felt very obnoxious
folding the big stack of cardboard at my desk.  My boss teased, "what
do you think this is the UPS store?"  The open air case will have to
wait until Sunday, I didn't get a chance to break it open yesterday.

When I got home, Marissa was teetering on the edge of a nap.  Rodney
was climbing on her, and even the dogs looked annoyed.  "Want to go to
Hy-Vee, dude?" I asked, as Marissa's sleepy eyes lit up.

Rodney and I drove to Hy-Vee, and we took our time.  I let him check
out the new holiday toy aisle, we snacked on some bread, and we looked
through the kitchen section for a funnel.  We didn't find it.  The
Hy-Vee kitchen utensils section has an amazing way of disappointing me
every time, no matter what I'm looking for.  We did, however, pick up
some potatoes, a sirloin steak, cream cheese, kimchi, and sandwich
buns.  It was philly cheese steak night, but this time I wasn't going
to succumb to usual bag of frozen french fries - I was going to try to
make my own.

When we got home, Marissa was still asleep on the couch, so I did my
best to keep Rodney busy in the kitchen.  We peeled the potatoes, then
cut them into fry shapes, which wasn't nearly as hard as I thought it
would be.  For a while, I've assumed that there was a difficult trick
to cutting every type of vegetable, and that has held me back.  I've
found instead that most of them just come down to common sense - just
picture what you want to end up with, and try something.

We tossed the delicate little shoestring shaped potatoes in some cold
water and rinsed, then dumped them out onto a paper towel.  I put
Rodney on drying duty.  He tamped them dry with more paper towels as I
dumped two bottles of corn oil into my Dutch oven.  We slipped the
fries into the cold oil.  Rodney threw the last few in from as high as
he could, and the oil splashed onto my face.  "PERFECT," he yelled as
I dabbed the oil off of my nose and chin.  I clicked the stove to HIGH
and we moved on to the steak.  Rodney helped me salt the steak while I
flipped and dried it, then we threw it on to some smoking hot olive
oil in my biggest pan.  As it seared, we chopped some white onions.
Rodney actually managed to chop one of the onion quarters in half with
a butter knife.  He handed me the chunks, then started to rub his
eyes.  "Dad, crying?"  I looked at him, and saw a tear rolling down
his face.  I laughed.  "Oh dude, cutting onions makes you cry.  You're
crying, even though you're not sad.  Isn't that weird?"  He repeated
the fun fact aloud to himself a few more times.

We dropped the slices of white onion around the steak and seasoned
with salt.  The kitchen air started to bloom with the aroma of burning
meat and onions.  Rodney and I cut the sandwich buns.  After I
finished cutting the middle out of two of them, I looked over and saw
Rodney was just ripping one of them up into pieces.  "Oh nice dude,
that's PERFECT," I said as I moved the other buns out of his reach.
That one would keep him busy for a while.  I was happy we bought a
small french load to split while shopping, because I was able to use
the rest of it for the missing sandwich bun.

The steak finished cooking, and Rodney and I combined cream cheese,
the grilled onions, sliced steak, provolone cheese, chopped kimchi,
and just a squirt of Korean hot pepper paste.  Marissa joined us in
the kitchen after emerging from her nap.  Just as I was sliding the
assembled sandwiches into the oven, I glanced over at the fries.  To
my delight, they were golden brown, floating on top the oil.  They
took about 45 minutes, and at no time did I have to measure the temp
of the oil or adjust the heat.  I scooped the fries onto a paper towel
and sprinkled them liberally with salt.  Marissa and I sampled one,
and in the best way possible they tasted like they were fresh from the
McDonald's across the street.

We sat down and ate dinner, then spent an extra twenty minutes at the
table goofing around and eating some ice cream for dessert.  I grabbed
baby giraffe and put on an impromptu puppet show in the kitchen, using
my arm to make it look like the giraffe was snatching my hat off my
head.  "It's funny because even though I can see your whole arm and
elbow, Rodney thinks it's hilarious," Marissa remarked.

After Rodney went to bed, Marissa and I caught up on chores, then
finished the night off by watching the Matirx.  I fell asleep on the
couch with Ziggy in my lap.  It was a good night.

That's what I got today.  Hope you all have a great weekend.  As for
me, I probably need to get this Dutch baby in the oven and start
waking my family.  We need to hit the road in about an hour and a
half.  Thanks for reading, everyone.

*** 2019-11-10 Sunday rochester, coffee, and forager

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Sunday.  This morning I'm coming to you
from my wife's childhood home in Rochester.  The /four/ of us are
sleeping in her childhood room actually.  Rodney is fast asleep in the
corner in his small toddler bed, and Marissa beside me.  In a few
moments, I'll wake her up and we'll hit the road for Madison.

I haven't had my morning coffee yet, so you'll have to excuse me if
this entry is a little sleepier than usual.  The drink of choice for
waking up in the mornings around here is diet coke.  I'm tempted to
grab one out of the basement fridge for my caffeine fix, but I think
I'll hold out for our first stop at Caribou instead.

Yesterday, we left for Rochester in the late morning, after dropping
the dogs off at a kennel.  Since this was a new place, we got out and
took a little tour.  We walked through the back where they keep the
dogs, and I noticed they were playing /The Lion King/ for them on the
TV.  That's considerate isn't it?  They also gave Rodney a donut.  He
selected a powdered donut off the plate and proudly carried it back to
the car on a napkin.  Before we even got on the highway again, it was
gone, and Rodney casually handed his wadded up napkin to mom, leaving
no evidence behind other than the dusting of powdered sugar on his
face.

I listened to podcasts while the rest of the family dozed off.  We
picked up lunch at Culver's along the way.  We arrived into town in
the early afternoon, which gave us some time to hang around the house,
and for Rodney to get some playing time in.  Mimi broke out his
'roller coaster', which is a long plastic hilly track and a little car
he can sit on and ride down.  Rodney quickly remembered how to set the
car, climb the little stairs, and kick off with his feet.  As Rodney
played, we caught up with the family.  The whole family was home for
the weekend, and it was wonderful to catch up with everyone.

Marissa and I left to set up her gallery at Forager around five.  They
led us back into a cozy room with a bar and some tables.  Her
paintings were hung on the wall.  She laughed and fixed a painting
that was hung up side down.  I guess people forget that these things
are meant to be hung a certain way.

Friends, family, and curious art patrons trickled in as Marissa and I
nibbled on some firewood pizza.  She sold two paintings right off the
wall.

We stayed through dinner, and Rodney went how with his grandma and
grandpa a little early so he could get to bed.  Marissa and I hung out
with Auntie Sarah and Uncle Mike.  By Sarah's recommendation, I
ordered the pomegranate juicy sour beer.  The deep murky candy purple
colored got my curiosity and I had to try it.  It was tart, complex,
and a little girly.  I felt like it would have been complete with a
little umbrella coming out the top.

Marissa and I went home around 10:30.  We wanted to get some good
sleep, knowing we'd hit the road around 8.  And speaking of which,
this will probably be a shorter entry today.  Hey - I did what I
could, and I think 500-600 words with no coffee is pretty respectable.
We need to pick up the dogs at a certain time, and as an added benefit
that means we'll also make it home in time for the Bears game.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Wear something comfortable
and sit on the couch, and maybe watch the Bears play the Lions.

*** 2019-11-11 Monday driving, bears, and my chicken caesar salad

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  This morning
I'm feeling well-rested, as yesterday we did our best to squeeze and
entire weekend's worth of rest into one Sunday.  We got back from
Minnesota some time around 11:20 AM - just in time to watch the Bears
game at noon.  We all unpacked, then changed into some comfy clothes.
I used the few extra minutes before the game to take out the garbage
and wash a load of dishes.

We all sat on the couch together as we watched the Bears play the
Lions.  It was a great game.  The Bears played strangely.  In the
first quarter, they were pretty underwhelming.  They're offense spent
barely any time on the field, and we were barely holding the Lions in
field goal range.  Then suddenly Trubisky throws for three touchdowns
in a row.  The end of Q2 and all of Q3 was absolutely electric.  Not
only did the offense show up, but the defense played a lot more
aggressively as well.  I mean, the Bears defense is usually good, but
during the 3rd quarter I thought my family was going to witness an
accidental manslaughter on the field - /fierce/.

Then once the Bears got a semi-commanding lead over the Lions, they
petered out and went back on the defensive.  The Lions had some decent
drives helped by crafty play calling and a pretty solid throwing game,
but in the end they couldn't add any points.

So Bears win.  I know it was just the Detroit Lions, but hey, now
we're not last in our division anymore.  And I think there's nothing
wrong with celebrating that.

As we watched the Bears game, Marissa heated me up a Philly cheese
steak, brought me a beer, as well as my favorite hot sauce.  Lounging
on the couch while my pregnant wife waited on me, I felt a little like
a living stereotype.

We sent Rodney to his room during the 4th quarter to take a nap.  I
fell asleep on the couch watching cooking videos.  Marissa felt like a
Caesar salad tonight, so I queued up some Caesar salad videos hoping
to amalgamate all the helpful tips from my favorite chefs into one
meal.

So in the past, I've ragged on my wife's Mexican salad.  It's only
fair I rag on mine.  Here is the Alex Recker Caesar Salad:

First off, you might think this is an easy night.  Just making a
salad, right?  Well, buddy you're wrong.  This is going to be an
intense preparation, and somehow you're going to use every dish and
utensil you have stored in your kitchen.

Step one: we have to make the Caesar dressing from scratch.  Yes,
there are a lot of ingredients, and we're going to need your blender,
but it's worth it.  If we do it right, it will taste almost as good as
a bottle that we'd buy off the shelf in the store, only this dressing
will be special because it took us about an hour to make.

Two garlic cloves grated into the blender.  Four anchovies, and go
ahead and dump the anchovy oil in as well.  If you cut your thumb on
the anchovy can, pause and reflect on your decision to not buy store
bought dressing.

Lemon juice, olive oil, a big scoop of mustard - something in a very
tiny jar, and the more German on the label the better.  I went with a
jar of /Wülsterstoorfendahlinkfraaght/ that was about the size of a
thimble.  Then cracked pepper.

Blend it together.  The sound of the blender probably attracted your
curious toddler.  As you hold the lid, just use your hips and legs to
keep him away from the counter, which is dripping with raw chicken.
Oh, you remembered to get the chicken right?  Make sure you buy two
chicken breasts that are way too big so in a panic you just end up
throwing out the other one after you realize you accidentally bought
three pounds of meat.  Cut the chicken into thin slices, and wash your
hands and go add the grated cheese and red wine vinegar that you
forgot to add to the dressing.

Does this sound like a lot of work?  We haven't even begun to do the
croutons yet.  Cut up a big hunk of stale bread into crouton shapes.
Don't worry if you accidentally made the croutons way too big, you've
got a lot on your mind.  You're keeping an eye on the grill outside,
and you're still using your legs and hips to safely entertain Rodney.
Set the bread aside, then throw some sliced garlic into olive oil and
simmer some cherry tomatoes.  This will wilt the tomatoes, which we
can set aside, then toss in the bread chunks and soak of the oil.
Arrange the bread chunks on a sheet pan and bake.  Oh yes, bake it.
You know it's a special meal when you have to involve all three heat
sources in your kitchen - stove, oven, & grill.

The grill is probably lit by now.  Oh, baby yeah we probably waited a
little too long.  It's vomiting flames into the air.  Walk out onto
the snowy deck in nothing but your socks and address the situation.
Once the flames are contained, add the seasoned chicken on the grill,
walk back inside, and start a timer for three minutes.

Crap, we STILL forgot about the cheese.  Add the cheese to the
dressing.  How much?  I have no idea, but by now the adrenaline took
over and we absent mindedley grated the whole store bought chunk into
our dressing, and now we need to thin it out again.  Blend, oil,
vinegar, taste, oil, blend, taste, oil, blend, taste.  The timer goes
off.  Why did we set the timer?  Stand there for a moment paralyzed in
fear because we can't remember why we set the - THE CHICKEN.  Walk
outside in your wet socks and flip the chicken.  Oh, that actually
looks pretty good.  Walk back inside, then set another timer for three
minutes.

Scrape the sides of the blender until all the dressing falls into a
cup, then balance the oily blender on the mountain of dishes you have
created in the sink.  The timer goes off.  Wait, why did we set the -
THE CHICKEN.  Walk outside in your wet socks, this time balancing
three plastic plates on your hip and move the chicken filets onto a
plate.  Cover the grill, then inside smear the dressing on the chicken
to allow it to cool.

We are finally ready to toss the salad.  Dump in two bags of romaine
lettuce into the bowl.  Wow, that's way too much lettuce, maybe one
and a half bags.  Still looks like too much - just one bag of lettuce.
That doesn't sound right, but we have a lot to fit in this bowl.  Add
the croutons, which as delicious as they look, they suddenly feel way
too big.  And now it looks like we have more croutons then lettuce
represented here.  Too late now, the sliced chicken is going in, along
with those wilted chilling tomatoes, some picked dill and terragon
leaves, and the rest of the dressing.  Toss the salad, then stick it
in your tiny freezer at an angle.  Precariously wedge the bowl on an
angle between your icecream and that bottle of vodka that's been in
your family since before you were married.

Call your family, then emerge from your pile of oily, smoking dishes
with your chicken caesar salad.

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Please
don't attempt to recreate my salad, and if you do, I'm not responsible
for your family eating late or if one of you choke on a giant
croutone.

Have a wonderful day everyone.

*** 2019-11-12 Tuesday late night pages, ki gong, and deep-dish pizza

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I'm feeling a little groggy today.  This week
I'm on-call, and last night at 2 AM I woke to a handful of pages.
Sometime last night, Amazon lost power to an availability zone in
their datacenter in Frankfurt, Germany.  I sleepily watched the
metrics four about twenty minutes or so, and to my relief, our
automation took care of things.  The server was automatically
decommissioned once it stopped receiving network traffic, and a new
replacement was provisioned in another zone.  I gave a tired fist bump
to myself before drifting off to sleep.  It wasn't so bad after all.
It was kind of the same sensation you get when you accidentally wake
up an hour before your alarm, check your phone out of habit, then
happily fall back asleep.  And plus, yesterday I rediscovered the
PagerDuty App's custom notifications, which are pretty hilarious.  I
have my phone set to "Barber Shop Quartet - The Server's On Fire".  So
what woke me last night wasn't the usual dignified "chirp", but
instead a barber shop quartet singing the refrain /Theeee
serrrrrrrverrrrrr's ooooooon fiiiiiiiiiiire/.  Dramatic stuff.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  After our team meeting, I attended
Monday morning Ki Gong with Justin.  He was standing in the glass yoga
room on the ninth floor staring out into the snow, which was blowing
upwards and sideways against the face of our building.  "It's like
we're standing inside of a snow globe," he remarked in wonder.

Since it was just the two of us for class, he took a more instructive,
tutoring approach.  He showed me something called the
"self-rejuvenating" routine, in which we massaged our hands, feet, and
legs.  As we switched from tapping our head, rubbing our hands
together and passing them over our eyes, digging our fingers into the
back of our calf, and beating ourselves in the chest, he explained to
me that this Ki Gong stuff isn't nearly as mystical as people think it
is.  "It's not magic, it's just a theory," he explained.  "And even
though they can't explain why this stuff makes you feel good, they
don't need to."  We finished the session by /charging up our organs/
with /good vibrations/, which sounds like a strange Beach Boys song,
doesn't it?  We tapped and struck various pressure points in the
chest, legs, and neck.  When I stood up, I felt light on my feet, and
almost like my pores had opened.  Ki Gong is good stuff, and now I
couldn't imagine starting a week of ticket duty without it.  Justin
humbly thanked me for attending, then we parted ways.

I spent the rest of the day trying to be as helpful as possible,
bouncing between slack conversations, scheduling production changes,
and commenting on tickets.  For lunch, I scooped my hilarious chicken
caesar salad into a bowl and mashed up a hardboiled egg, because
apparently it /still/ didn't have enough protein for me.  Now that
I've started paying attention, you can really tell I don't eat a lot
of salads.  I clearly have no idea what I'm doing.

At 4:30, I jumped on a bus and made a grocery list.  Marissa formerly
requested deep dish pizza, and she didn't need to say it twice.  It's
a little hard to fit into a weeknight meal, but Marissa and Rodney
don't mind if dinner is delayed by ten minutes or so.  I woke Rodney
from his nap, and we went to the store.  He was bundled up in his
jacket and gloves, and very talkative from the day.  He played outside
in the snow while Mom shoveled the driveway.  Marissa tried to build a
snowman with him, but Rodney had more fun knocking it over.  Boys,
right?  Boys suck.

As I made the pizza, Marissa chatted in the kitchen while Rodney
wandered around living room playing with his toys.  He made us each a
playdough cupcake on a tiny plate with a fork, probably to hold us
over while we hungrily waited for the pizza.  That was considerate of
him, and probably made up for his earlier display of violent
aggression against snowman arts.

I did something a little different with the pizza last night.  I
decided to leave out the store bought marinara and see if I could
achieve the desired thick & sweet deep dish sauce using only canned
tomatoes.  Not only did it taste better, but it cooked much faster and
the consistency was much more appealing.  When you simmer the tomatoes
in marinara, the tomato eventually completely disappears and you don't
get those nice chunks sprinkled throughout.  But simmering in only a
bit of water from their can, the beautiful tomato chunks had nowhere
to hide and were forced to stand proudly atop the pizza.

I'm proud of my deepdish recipe.  It feels like a real milestone in my
home cooking life.  Deep dish pizza was always a childhood hometown
favorite of mine, but since I could only enjoy it after waiting an
hour at Lou Malnati's, I had it on a pedestal and just assumed that
making it at home would never be practical.  To add to it, the amount
of diverging deep dish advice on the Internet is overwhelming.  And
one of my favorite parts about my variation is that over time it has
gotten simpler.  There are fewer ingredients in the dough & sauce, and
it's becoming a lot more reproducible.  Maybe I'll make an
instructional video and throw it on YouTube.

For Monday's power hour, I started the week out strong by cleaning
behind the living room couch.  Couches are amazing.  It's a pretty
fascinating view of how your family relaxes.  Crayons, coffee spills,
popcorn, socks - I'll spare you the gory details, but it's been a
while since I cleaned underneath the cushions.

So that's what I got today.  I hope you all have a wonderful day
today.  Remember to charge your organs, spend some time today staring
at the snow, and cook pizza for your family.  As for me, I have
another day of work, where I'll be cruising the backlog for tickets
and vigilantly waiting for the barber shop quartet to sing /The
Serrrrrrrverrrrrr's Oooooon Fiiiiiiiire./

Oh, and to any new readers in the Redalen family slack channel,
welcome!

Have a great Tuesday, everyone.

*** 2019-11-13 Wednesday french cooking, missing burners, and the case from hell

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well this morning.  I was
having difficulty finding time to write this morning, which is
surprising, because I'm working from home today and without the
commute you'd think I'd have all the time in the world.  I took a
little longer getting ready this morning, then I noticed Rodney was
awake.  To keep him from bothering Marissa while she was trying to get
out the door for dog class, I took Rodney in the kitchen to make a
French omelet for us to share.  We cracked three eggs, Rodney added a
heavy pinch of salt, then we "busted those eggs right in the yolks" as
[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXPhVYpQLPA][Chef John]] likes to say.  We cooked the eggs gently in butter, swirling
the pan and scrambling with a spatula.  At this point, I had to stop
explaining things to Rodney so I could focus - I had only successfully
made one of these one other time.  Finally we rolled the flat egg
pancake into an omelet.  I sealed it with my finger against the side
of the pan.  Rodney touched the hot egg with his finger to, and
recoiled.  "Oh sorry dude, that's kind of hot, isn't it?" I asked.
"Want me to kiss it?"  That's a standard remedy in our house.  "No,"
Rodney responded.  "Mommy kiss it."  Rodney jumped off the step stool
and trotted upstairs.  That's fair, I guess.  He's allowed to have
preferences.  I agree with you, dude, Mom's kisses are superior,
especially while Dad is in the second week of /movember/.

Yesterday was a pretty action-packed day.  I had another busy day on
ticket duty, flying from one meeting, ticket, and slack question to
the next.  This week I'm trying to get over my shyness and meet with
people in person (or at least in a video call) whenever I can.  Typing
words has always come easier to me, but I've noticed for most people -
especially people who are stuck on something - prefer an in person
explanation.  Plus, looking somebody in the eye, you get a lot of
empathy for free.  It's a lot harder to get grumpy about somebody's
issue when you can hear the frustration in their voice, and maybe even
see how tired they are in their face.  But you never point it out to
them - that's just rude.

On the way home from work, I made a grocery list.  "What do you feel
like tonight," I messaged Marissa.  "Tilapia," she responded.  I knew
what she was picturing - some seared tilapia served with a can of
baked beans, and maybe a can of sweet corn.  But I had a busy day at
work, and when work picks up I like to spend extra time in the
kitchen, so instead I planned to make tilapia, herb & rice pilaf, and
a french butter sauce.  Like most dinners, it was a combination of
things I've done before and things I googled on my phone on the way
home.

Rodney and I drove to the grocery store.  Even though we had a lot of
ingredients to pick up for dinner, most of them were in the produce
aisle, so we took our time.  We picked up some fish from the meat
counter, swung over by the dairy for some heavy cream, and finally
grabbed a miniature bottle of white wine from the liquor store.

As I cooked, Marissa worked on a painting in the dining room.  I put
on some quiet Frank Ocean and started dicing vegetables, carrying on a
conversation with Marissa about the day.  I started the rice early,
cooking some onions in butter, then adding long grained white rice,
water, and minced garlic.  Next was the sauce - some diced shallots,
terragon, and butter.  I waited until the shallots softened in butter,
then added a cup of white wine.  "This missing burner is really
starting to irritate me," I griped.  Marissa looked up from her
painting in concern.  "Yeah, would it have helped you to have a
fourth?" she asked.  "It's not so much that I'm missing a burner, it's
just that out of the three I have, only one of them is big."  On most
evenings, missing a burner on our stove doesn't bother me - only when
I make something ambitious and French.  Ordering a replacement part is
on our todo list - it's just one of those things that's hard to get
around to, especially since we've tried to order one and it was the
wrong size.

The little back-right burner finally brought the wine to a simmer.  I
nervously glanced at the clock.  "Ahhh, I forgot about how long this
sauce takes, we might be eating a little late," I complained.  Marissa
shook her head.  "You know we're always fine no matter what time we
eat, 7:00 PM is just a deadline you set for yourself."  I laughed,
"AH, yeah I guess it's only 6:40, we're still in the clear."

Dinner was finished at 7.  As we ate, we talked about our weekend
plans.  "You know," Marissa started, "there's that dinosaur show at
the Aliant energy center, I bet we would have a lot of fun there as
long as it's not too scary."  She spun her chair around and found a TV
spot for the touring dinosaur show on YouTube.  Rodney smiled.
"Oh man," I exclaimed.  "That's looks awesome dude."

After Rodney went to bed, Marissa and I caught up on chores, then I
used the power hour to finally assemble that router case that has been
sitting on my desk.  I was picturing about twenty minutes of assembly,
ten minutes turning everything back on, then I'd use the rest of the
time to tidy of my server rack.  But opening up the box, suddenly the
dining room table was filled with tiny screws, cables, and pieces of
metal frame.  There was also a pair of white gloves - like the kind
that you'd wear if you were dusting for fingerprints.  I knew I was in
trouble.

By the time I had figured out how to assemble the case, it had already
been an hour, and I had to shift my attention to getting the Internet
back on.  This project will have to wait for a weekend.  I sloppily
packed up all the parts in a plastic bag, penning "CASE FROM HELL" on
the label.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you all have a wonderful day today.
Being halfway through the week, it might be a good idea to find some
place quiet to sit and not think about anything, even if it's only for
fifteen minutes.  I'm going to try that today.

*** 2019-11-14 Thursday bad days, burnt rice, and the culinary gods

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Today /feels/ like a brand new day, and I
definitely needed one.  Yesterday sucked.  Yesterday blows.  If
yesterday were an employee of mine, I'd have fired him yesterday, and
yelled "don't let the doorknob hit you on the ass" on his way out.
But you would have never known it from my cheery journal entry about
french cooking, and mildly griping about our stove's missing burner.
I did a pretty nice job getting in a good headspace for writing, but
things started to roll downhill when it came time to publish it.  My
script failed, and it took a few minutes and some manual tweaking to
fix it.  Meanwhile, as I was sitting there at the breakfast table
completely ignoring Rodney, my phone buzzed, reminding me I had a
meeting.  It threw me off because our morning stand-up usually isn't
until 9:30, but today it was moved, so I scrambled to set Rodney up by
the TV and join the remote meeting.

The rest of the work day was kind of a progression of self-inflicted
disruptions.  I had the usual ticket duty workload of fielding
questions and jumping on things that broke, but this week I may have
over-committed myself.  At some point, while I was working upstairs
Marissa brought me a plate of hot pizza and a beer.  "I don't even
remember eating it," I recounted with her later.  "It just kind of
slid down my throat while I was working."

At 3:30, I wrapped up my last meeting for the day, and took about
twenty minutes to just sit there and stare out the window.  Marissa,
Rodney, and the dogs joined me on the bed before they left to run
errands.  I chipped away at some more work, then called it a day at
4:30.

As Marissa napped, I clicked around YouTube looking for a dinner
recipe.  Marissa advised, "no preferences tonight, just cook something
that makes you happy."  Chef John had a recipe for kimchi fried rice,
and that looked pretty simple and quick, so I added the ingredients to
the grocery list and trotted upstairs to get Rodney.  He was already
awake and staring out the window.

We had a wonderful time at Hy-Vee.  We looked at the Christmas toys,
then chatted with the butcher about these giant tiger prawns they were
selling.  "I mean, if you're going to spend that much money on
shellfish, why aren't you just buying lobster," he laughed.  "So I
take it your not making commission on these things?" I added.  The
butcher bagged up our /regular/ shrimp and sent us on our way.

We got home, and Rodney wanted to help in the kitchen.  So I started
to make a batch of white rice and peel the shrimp.  As I cooked, I
started to realize that shopping at Hy-Vee was just a temporary mood
lifter and that I was still kind of burnt out from work.  I even
snarled at Rodney a few times.  As I scolded, "Rodney dude, if you're
going to be in the kitchen, I expect you to help, not just screw
around."  Rodney looked up from confusion, holding his "hammer" (which
is really just a corkscrew opener) and a fist full of butcher's
twine.  I wanted to take the words back as soon as they left my
mouth.  What does that even mean?  When does a three your old do
anything /but/ screw around?  I felt sick to my stomach.

And the culinary gods evidently were not pleased with my attitude
either.  My fried rice immediately adhered to my cast iron pan, and
the rice left over got stickier, starchier, and the garlic, kimchi,
and hot pepper paste was just not working.  The meal smelled and
tasted a lot like I felt inside - thrown together and 'burnt out'.  I
guess there's no hiding in cooking.  My food always seems to reflect
how I'm feeling.

As we picked at the bowl of rice I made, Marissa set down her fork.  I
suggested she make a salad, and she kindly offered to make Rodney a
peanut butter and jelly.  "Do you think it's too spicy?  I haven't
heard him complain."  I asked.

"Oh Rodney doesn't complain about spicy foods anymore," she replied.
"He just drinks his milk faster."  Rodney nodded, trying to keep up
with the conversation.  His milk was already empty.  I got up and
dumped my rice in the garbage, then grabbed a bag of paw patrol fruit
snacks.  "I'm sorry," I said at the dinner table, "today sucks, and
this didn't work the way I wanted it to."  Marissa smiled
empathetically.  "Ticket duty pass!" she said.

It's been a really long time since I completely bricked dinner, and
that hurts.  Marissa offered to put Rodney to bed, and I went upstairs
to take a nap.  "You need a nap," Marissa said.  "You didn't relax at
all yesterday."  That was true.  I suddenly realized my chore time
rolled right into trying to build that computer case, and that wasn't
a very pleasant experience.

I fell asleep immediately and woke up 45 minutes later to my alarm.
Despite feeling some acid reflux from my kimchi rice, I felt
refreshed, and slowly emerged from our bedroom to begin cleaning the
kitchen.  I let myself get swept away in Kanye's new album while I
scrubbed my cast iron.  As I chipped and flaked each shard of burnt
rice from the bottom, I could feel my mood slowly turning.  I finished
my kitchen chores by wiping out my cast iron pans with mineral oil and
torching them over the stove.  The clean, burning mineral oil felt
like it was cleansing the kitchen of all the mistakes I made today.
The /culinary gods/ are fair, but they can forgive too.

For 'power hour', I just sat in the dining room with a La Croix and
responded to emails, then tidied things up on my computer.  It was
probably the most generous version of "nesting power hour" I've done,
but taking Marissa's advice, I needed to relax.  Once I was finished,
I curled up with Ziggy on the couch and listened to some music.

This morning I'm feeling good.  I'm going to try to do a better job of
guarding my mood.  It will be another busy day, but I'm going to take
a solid, quiet lunch, and go for a cold walk around the square.

Hope you all have a good day.  Take some time for yourself.  Go for a
walk, cuddle with your dog, and send emails to people.  And take care
of your cast iron, too.

*** 2019-11-15 Friday computers, evil ai, bad cgi, and kidscode

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning, my text editor is looking crisp
and lovely.  It's good to be back on a regular ol' HDMI cable.  For
those who might not remember, for the last week or so, I broke my
computer while updating the BIOS and suddenly it was no longer able to
boot with HDMI, and as a temporary workaround I've been using a HDMI
to VGA dongle.  If you can't picture what that plug looks like in your
head, it's that wide ugly one with the little screws on either side.
And in addition to looking gross and cluttering up the desk, we've
been without audio and limping by with a fuzzy resolution.  Last
night, Marissa groaned while trying to get audio to play out of a two
foot AUX cord and our tiny speaker.  She wanted to watch Harry Potter
while painting frames.

For a week of "everything's on fire", it felt good to finally get a
win and start fighting back.  And getting the dining room computer
working is important, since that's where every day begins (it's where
I write these entries).  Well, I use the term 'working' loosely.  HDMI
and audio work, but while kicking the tires last night I discovered
that Steam remote play no longer works.  When I try to connect from
the TV, I get all the audio and a solid black screen.  That's the way
these things are - computers are like whack-a-mole.  Once you find an
arrangement that fixes something, another problem arises.  It's like
every computer in your house has to have a minimum entropy, or /bad
mojo/, if you will.  And fixing the resolution last night squeezed
that bad mojo somewhere else - thankfully somewhere less critical.
All that means for me is come Sunday, I'll have to watch the Bears
game on our TV with a half closed laptop within cable range.

Incidentally, that's why I'm not too worried about computers gaining
too much intelligence and enslaving us.  We all know that tech
companies have a long way to go before they make anything that good.
My Samsung Smart TV still gets amnesia whenever we turn it out.
Marissa's phone still crashes whenever she gets a voicemail.  My phone
runs out of disk space whenever I get a software update (no doubt
because all the old updates are taking up the space).  My macbook at
work has been plugged into the same monitor for almost four years, and
it forgets everything about it once a week.  Oh, and just to bring it
home, anything and everything about Microsoft.

If you ask me, a more likely scenario is that the machines have
already taken over, and we're living in the Matrix.  And in order for
that to work, all of our tech would have to mysteriously break and
stagnate for as long as possible under the guise of "innovation" and
"progress".  What I fear more than our tech getting too good is that
our tech hasn't actually changed - only the way we spin it and sell it
to people.

Machine learning is not AI.  Sticking a wireless card in a toaster or
a fridge does not make it smarter, it's just yet another thing that
breaks when your Internet goes down.  And streaming services are
really just cable with extra steps.

If you couldn't tell, Marissa and I are in the throws of a Matrix
trilogy marathon.  Last night we just finished the second
installment.  Those movies are better than I remember.  When I was
younger, I watched it mostly for the fight scenes - I think I even
used to just fast forward through the dialog.  But it holds up.  The
writing can be a little wordy at times, but it's a fascinating movie
if you pay attention.

And ironically, watching the movie in 2019, it's some of the fighting
scenes that are laughable.  Whenever neo does something unnatural,
like float in the air, you can see the texture of his skin and hair
smoothen out while they swap in the CGI version of him right in front
of you.  "It's like watching an old screensaver kick on in the middle
of the movie," we heckled.

And yes, in this entry I'm aware of the irony that I make the argument
that tech might not be getting any better, then go on to mock how bad
CGI in movies used to look.  CGI has gotten a lot better.  Perhaps CGI
will get so good that it will enslave humanity.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  I hit the ticket duty backlog
hard, but I took a midday break to grab lunch with Rob.  We ordered a
pair of Zombie Dust beers, and I got a little basket of hot wings.
Hot wings and beer are such a classic combination, and I'd challenge
you to scour the culinary universe for a better pairing.

After work, I hung around the house with Marissa until kids code
started.  On Thursday, we joke that I get the "Kids Code scaries".
Since I have to leave the house around 5:30, that leaves me with a
little less than a half hour, and since I don't know what to do with
myself I just pace around the house in anticipation.  It has less to
do with the event itself, and more to do with the fact that I just
have to go somewhere and be social.

Kids Code was wonderful.  The closest thing I had that resembled a
lesson plan was "make a game that involves a Turkey".  Some kids
actually took me up on the challenge.  One kid made a turkey edition
of "duck hunt", but most kids just wisely scribbled a small turkey in
the corner of their game so they'd qualify.

The linux laptops were pretty popular yesterday.  One regular club
member wanted to install something on the Windows laptops we have, and
was disappointed that we didn't have the admin password for the
library computers (trust me, I don't want the admin password either -
with great power comes great responsibility, right?).  "We can't
install it on there, but want one of the linux laptops?  We have the
root password, and you can pretty much do whatever you want."

Marshall hadn't heard of linux, but he was intrigued.  As he clicked
around, he asked me a few more questions.  "How much does it cost?
How do you get it on a laptop?"  As I explained to him that it's
well-document, universally accepted as the standard in most
engineering disciplines, and completely free-as-in-beer, his eyes
widened with wonder.  He made the same kind of face that neo did when
Morpheus said /welcome to the REAL world/.

That's my time, everyone.  Thanks for reading.  Hope you have a
wonderful Friday.

*** 2019-11-16 Saturday puffy pancakes, robot dinosaurs, and naps before bed

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  And I say 'good morning' in the most generous
sense of the word.  It's about 11:43 AM, and there are only a few more
minutes in the day where this qualifies as a morning journal entry.

At least I made pretty good use of the time.  I slept in by my
standards, rolling out of bed just a little after nine.  Rodney was
awake, so I got him ready for the day.  Later we plan on checking out
the touring mechanical robot dinosaur show at the Alliant Energy
center, so to celebrate the day he wore his green dinosaur sweater.
When we finally roll up to the show later today, he'll no doubt look
like the biggest dinosaur fan in the building.

Rodney and I let the dogs out, then cleaned up the kitchen from last
night's pizza.  "Dude, whoever cleans the kitchen at night should be
fired - what a bum!" I teased.  Rodney repeated, "What a bum!".  Truth
be told, after a long week of ticket duty, chores, and Kids Code, I
was supremely burnt out, and filling my stomach with pizza and beer
was the straw that broke the camel's back, and that camel had no
choice but to just collapse on the couch for the rest of the night.

We brushed the crumbs off the cutting bored, did a quick load of
dishes, then shifted our focus to making breakfast.  "What's it gonna
be today, dude?  We got eggs, flour, butter, a stale loaf of bread -
the sky is the limit," I said.

"Dutch Baby!" Rodney yelled, gesturing at the stove.  Of course he
picked the hard one.  That recipe calls for clarified butter, and even
though we just went to the market yesterday, I totally spaced and
forgot to grab another jar of clarified butter.  But Rodney's
enthusiasm for puffy German pancakes inspired me to make it ourselves.

We dropped a stick of butter in the pan and turned the heat on.  As we
waited for it to melt, we gathered the ingredients.  Rodney cracked
three eggs into a bowl, guided by my hands.  "There you go dude, just
crack them in the middle and open it like a book," I instructed.  The
egg crumpled in his tiny fingers.  "Perfect," I said as I fished the
egg shells out with my pinky finger.

Once the butter was melted, I used a spoon to skim off the fat, doing
my best to keep as much butter around as possible.  As I'm writing
this, I realize I probably should have used the cheese cloth I have.
You'd think after buying cheese cloth and finding a place to store it,
I'd find any excuse to break it out.  But a spoon worked fine.

Melted down without the fat, a stick of butter doesn't seem like that
much food - just a shimmering pool of yellow liquid that barely
covered the bottom of my saucepan.  We dumped it into the bottom of a
skillet and stuck it in the oven.  Rodney shifted his attention to
building a tower out of his toy bulldozer and some measuring cups left
over from making the batter.  I remembered earlier this week when I
scolded him for screwing around in the kitchen.  "That's great dude,
just keep working on that tower," I said.  I was making a point to be
distinctly /pro-screwing around/.  Since my burnt rice bad day, that's
the new policy.  Rodney nodded dutifully and went back to balancing
the truck toy on top.

We blended the ingredients together.  Rodney likes to hit the blender
button, but sometimes forget that the lid needs to be fastened first.
I do my best to unplug the blender so he doesn't get into trouble.
When he helps me in the kitchen, I try to let him use as many tools as
possible.  I don't want him to be afraid of knives, scissors,
stoves. and other appliances.  Sometimes that liberal philosophy
backfires - last night while he was helping me cut onions, he managed
to pinch his finger pretty hard with a butter knife - but for the most
part it's worked out pretty well.

We dumped the batter into the hot skillet.  It hissed, then melted
into the butter.  Rodney scampered off to watch /Dinosaur Train/ while
the pancake baked in the oven - I told you it was a dinosaur kind of
day.

Marissa emerged, and we ate breakfast at the table, then we excused
Rodney to go watch some more TV.  I was planning on getting an early
jump on journaling, but Marissa and I just stayed at the table, drank
coffee and talked instead.  It's been a crazy week, and it felt good
to just sit and talk while the pancakes digested.  We talked about how
Marissa is dealing with the pregnancy, peppering the conversation with
Office quotes and other jokes.  Marissa recalled the scene where Pam
is pregnant and absent-mindedly spits her gum on the floor.

The slow, easy morning has already set the mood for this weekend.  We
have nothing planned for today except for hanging out with some robot
dinosaurs sometime in the afternoon.  We'll leave some time after
lunch, taking plenty of time to graze on pizza leftovers from last
night.

Last night, we started the third matrix movie, so back into the
action.  I only made it about a half hour before I started to doze
off.  Marissa switched the TV over to the Harry Potter movie she was
watching earlier so I could sleep without missing any of the action.
I must have gotten a solid 45 minutes of sleep in before she woke me
to head upstairs for the night.  Taking a nap right before bedtime -
how excellent is that?

Sleep.  Breakfast.  Coffee.  Dinosaurs.  Life is pretty great right
now.  And by the looks of it, it looks like it's warming up outside.
It might be a good day for an ambitious outdoor project, or a long
walk around the neighborhood.

Whatever you get up to today, I hope you make time for dinosaurs.  And
I think I might be on to something with this whole "nap before bed"
thing.  I think it's got legs.  "#NapBeforeBed" even makes a pretty
snappy hashtag.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Here's to catching up on
sleep, long weekends, and of course, dinosaurs.  Where would we be
without dinosaurs?

*** 2019-11-17 Sunday video games, dinosaurs, recycling, and mushrooms

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Sunday.  It's a beautiful day outside,
in the "stay-inside" kind of way.  This morning I'm catching up on
dishes from last night, and Rodney is still sleeping.  Marissa just
left to attend a dog agility seminar.  As she grabbed her notebook, I
shoved a stuffed pepper into some tupperware and handed it to her like
a football.

Yesterday, after posting a fashionably late journal entry, we hung
around the house for a bit.  I decided to boot up Super Meat Boy, and
the game piqued Rodney's interest.  After a few minutes of playing, I
handed him the controller and did my best to get him started with
moving, jumping, and the basic point of the game.  Mom joined us on
the couch too.  Admittedly we're eager to get Rodney into video games.
Out of all the things he's interested in, there are few he can work on
quietly by himself.  Sometimes, when he plays in the corner with his
toys, it's more of a continuous show-and-tell, where he feels the need
to run over to us in the kitchen or at the dining room table and give
real time updates as to what each of his trucks are doing.  The
thought of him quietly entertaining himself with something that's not
TV is appealing to say the least.  Marissa flashed me a smile as soon
as Rodney figured out how to wall jump and exclaimed "I GOT IT."  I
responded, "I think it's happening," using only my eyes.

We heated up some leftover pizza and sat at the dinner table, letting
the Super Meatboy music play on as a soundtrack to our lunch.  We
finished eating, then parted ways to finish our morning routine,
meeting at the door about an hour later so we could head to the
Alliant energy center.  As we parked, we could see a single long
necked dinosaur sitting on the back of a flat bed truck.  It had a
'for sale' sign slung around it's neck.  "Are we buying that on the
way home?  Think we can fit it in the car?" I joked.

We were greeted at the door by a long walk way guarded by a giant
inflatable dinosaur head.  Inside, there were large mechanical
dinosaurs roaring, and stirring as people walked by.  Some of the
dinosaurs had a tiny camera hidden at their feet, and they would
follow you with their eyes and even mimic you with their arms.

The biggest hit of the afternoon was probably the archeology dig
sandboxes.  Rodney sat in the sandbox and used a brush to clear the
sand off of a large dinosaur skeleton.  We would have probably sat
there for an hour, but in an oversight there were no chairs or benches
for parents to sit, so we had to move on.

Rodney enjoyed the dinosaurs with reserve and admiration.  Some of the
kids were trying to climb over the ropes or pull at their teeth and
arms, but Rodney was reluctant to touch anything.  He'd approach a
dinosaur, wave to it, savor it for a few seconds, then say "OK bye
bye" and take small steps elsewhere.

His good behavior earned him a toy from the gift shop.  We picked up a
soft rubber T-Rex, and we named him /Tyrannosaurus/.  As we exited, we
walked through a section of the arena packed with inflatable bouncy
castles, arcade games, and concessions.  Lines wrapped around each
attraction.  I saw a row of picnic tables where tired parents sat
eating snacks.  "Of course they only want you to sit where they can
make money off of you," I complained aloud.

I dropped Marissa and Rodney off at home for a nap, then left to get
groceries.  Before stopping at Hy-Vee, I swung by the recycling center
to drop off some old rugs we had temporarily stashed in our car.
Marissa has always done these little recycling center trips - so much
so that the workers know her by name.

Madison takes their recycling seriously.  As I was flipping the rolled
up rugs in the dumpster, one of the workers raised his voice at
someone who was putting metal in the 'wood only' dumpster.

At Hy-Vee, I picked up bell peppers, mushrooms, shallots, a bottle of
wine, and a pair of steaks.  When the pregnant lady I live with wants
steak, she doesn't have to ask twice.  I returned home to a quiet and
sleepy house and quietly began cooking.  The mushroom stuffing I like
to make it peppers is kind of hilarious because to make enough, you
have to start by chopping something like forty mushrooms into very
tiny pieces.  Once you've filled a bowl with pulverized mushroom bits,
it all gets dumped into a dutch oven with butter and shallots.  From
there, the goal is to just boil off all the water.  It's one of those
recipes that only comes together at the end.  About half way through,
staring at soggy mushroom crumbs soaking in hot brown mushroom water,
you'd be tempted to lose faith, but eventually they dry up and the
mixture becomes creamy like a stuffing.

Meanwhile I steamed six eggs, chilled them in cold water, then scooped
out the yolks.  The yolks get mashed up with the stuffing.  Finally,
the bell peppers get hollowed out.  It was a great task for testing
out my new /Opinel/ cooking knife.

I stuffed the peppers, topped when with cheese, then slid them into
the oven before turning my attention to the steaks.  Canola oil,
butter, tinfoil.  We sat at the table and munched on warm bread while
the steak rested and peppers finished in the oven.

This morning, after Rodney wakes up and I finish cleaning the kitchen,
we're going to take a walk to the grocery store.  I haven't decided on
dinner, but for a late night snack, I'm going to try to make a
blooming onion.  I found a video recipe for it last night, and
suddenly soaking a sliced onion in buttermilk, dredging it in flour,
and dropping it in oil for a few minutes didn't seem so scary.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Take it easy today, we have
a long week ahead of us.  Relax, drink coffee, make a bloomin' onion,
and watch the Bears game tonight.  Thanks for reading!

*** 2019-11-18 Monday practice turkeys, deep fried onions, and benching mitch

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Monday to all of you.  This morning I'm
starting my journal entry about two minutes late.  I guess my shower
took a little longer than expected.  I was already starting to put my
thoughts together about the Thanksgiving turkey, and I guess I lost
track of time.  I believe this is the last week before Thanksgiving
week, so if I'm going to get at least one practice Turkey in before
the big day, it will have to happen sometime this week.

And by /practice turkey/, I mean it.  Before Thanksgiving I make a
whole turkey, just to practice.  Since last year was my first
thanksgiving where I was supposed to cook the turkey, I actually made
three of them out of anticipation.  Last year's turned out pretty
good, so I have a feeling it's not going to take three trials.  Maybe
just one bird to make sure my grill still works the way I expect it
to.

Ah, last night was a fun night.  In the morning, Rodney and I hung
around the house.  After finishing breakfast, Rodney retired to the
living room to binge watch some Blippi, and I tidied up after the
weekend.  I got on a pretty nice cleaning streak where I caught up on
laundry, and finally moved all the mugs off the coffee bar and wiped
it down.  The sprinkles of coffee grounds that have been collecting in
and around the mugs was starting to bother me.

After a bit, we heated up some lunch, then bundled up to brave the
drizzly weather to walk to the grocery store.  Rodney reclined,
snuggling his baby giraffe as I tucked him in using my rain pancho.
"Piggies?  Piggies?" he asked.  In our family's custom, "piggies" are
when you get tucked into your blanket so thoroughly that even each of
your toes get a fair share.  Just goes to show how comfortable he
really was.

We returned from the store, then I put Rodney down for a nap, changing
into some dry nap clothes myself.  Just as I was about to settle in
and bide a few hours half sleeping and half watching YouTube, Marissa
returned from her dog agility seminar.  The timing was pretty comical.
I did my best to hang around the kitchen and make her feel welcomed,
but I must have looked really eager to crash on the couch after a long
morning of cleaning and hauling a wagon to and from the grocery store.

Around five, I emerged from couch cushions and blankets to begin
prepping dinner.  As it was game day, I was doing something in the
junk food realm.  A bloomin' onion, some homemade fries (since I was
breaking out the oil anyway), and Chicago style polish sausages.

The fried onion was laborious.  I was having fun cutting the petals
and shaping the flower up until it came time to prepare the dredge,
which inexplicably had about six different ingredients involving
buttermilk, rice flour, and corn starch.  In the end, it all came
together in a shaggy, tart smelling mess.

As I was dredging the flowered beast in flour, struggling to find
bowls and plates in my kitchen large enough to contain the work area,
it dawned on me that I probably should have picked a smaller onion.
In a moment of pure mental disconnect I went for the largest organic
vidalia onion in the box.  The cashier even complemented me - /that is
the biggest onion I've ever seen in my life/.  "I'm going to deep fry
it!" I said loudly enough for the whole store to hear.  They must have
though I was some kind of weirdo, had some kind of death wish, or had
some kind of underground lab with a hot oil vat big enough to actually
do it.  Nope - just a regular dude using a big pot filled precariously
with hot canola oil.

I used the french fries as a way to measure the readiness of the oil.
As soon as they were golden brown, I moved them to a pan with paper
towels and gave the oil a minute to heat up.  I donned by heat proof
gloves and scooted the fire extinguisher close by, then once I had
finally mustered the courage, flopped the shaggy dusted onion into the
oil.  A pillar of steam flung upwards from the pot and a shirked
behind my fire extinguisher.  I held it close by for the five minutes
it cooked.  As the steam died down, I approached the pot and gingerly
rolled the flower to the other side.  Well, it looked delicious.

I plated the flower next to some garlic sauce and woke Marissa up from
her nap.  She brought Rodney along for the first taste.  We nibbled a
few petals, and I have to say I was a little disapointed.  Not because
it turned out bad, but because it tasted exactly like the appetizer
you'd order from Outback steakhouse.  And just like eating it at
Outback, you eat a few petals, then it cools off, then you immediately
get sick of it.

At least the polish sausages were a redemptive success.  And as these
things usually work out, they took substantially less work than the
deep fried Outback experience.  I navigated the rubble of rice flour,
oil droplets, and splotches of flour to slice another onion and sautee
it with some sausage.  I warmed the buns over some boiling water,
spread them with mustard, then packed a sausage, some onions, and
sport peppers on the bun before wrapping it in tinfoil.  The recipe
was patterned after Jim's polish sausage cart, which despite living in
the backyard of Chicago my whole life, is an ancient Chicago tradition
I managed to miss.  "You're supposed to eat this on the hood of your
car," I reported.  "I know this, not because I've done it, but because
I watched the touristy YouTube video."

After dinner, we tidied up the mess, then quickly relocated to the
couch to watch the Bears game.  The game was truly one of the saddest
things I've ever seen.  Our kicker hero Eddy missed two field goals,
and I'm wondering if he is ever going to hit a field goal again.  The
defense wasn't clicking.  Our run game was deflated.  And on top of it
all, despite Mitch playing a pretty good game, Matt Nagy benched him
in the last four minutes when they were only down by a touchdown and
change.  It was perplexing, and continued to bother me and Marissa
until we went to bed.  Talking to the reporters, Matt Nagy insisted
that it was because Mitch had injured his hip, but I find that hard to
believe based on how he was talking to Mitch on the sidelines.

Our team may be broken right now, but I felt for Mitch.  After the
game, Marissa and I watched a highlight reel from last season, and I
was surprised to see he played exactly the same way he did last season
as he did this season, only it was successful.  He was still
scrambling, running the ball, and throwing with only one leg on the
ground, and it was working.  I'd have to conclude that it was because
he had better coverage, better receivers, and better overall team
chemistry.  Mitch isn't the ultimate solution, but he's not the
problem either.

So that's what I got today.  In about 3 minutes, I go off of ticket
duty, so tonight I'm going to shut off my phone, cook something, clean
my house, and stew about the Bears.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-11-19 Tuesday dave & buster's

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.

Oof.  My stomach is doing somersaults this morning.  Readers, I think
two days straight of junk food is finally catching up with me.  But
even though my stomach is filled with some bad stuff at the moment, my
head is filled with fun memories from yesterday, and my heart is full.
Yesterday, it felt great to head back into work knowing I was finally
not on duty anymore.  I treated myself to some Starbucks on the way
in.  We had a few meetings, I worked in the morning, then heated some
some leftovers.  As I ate, I chatted with Marissa about the plan for
the day.  She had forgotten that she needed the car that evening for a
dog agility class she was auditing, so picking up groceries and
cooking dinner was likely not happening.  "Dave & Busters?" she
suggested.  "YES," I responded, quickly lighting up the chat window.
The weather has been so dreary lately, and it's hard to get the energy
to do fun stuff in the evening when there is so little light.  But
D&B's is like a casino, where the inside is specifically designed to
obscure what time of day it is.

By Marissa's report, once she told Rod about the evening plan with
dad, he wouldn't stop talking about it.  As she recapped, he lied
awake in bed when he was supposed to be napping, telling each of his
stuffed animals about the plan to go /play games with dad/.

I have to admit, I was excited too.  Not only is it fun to watch
Rodney burn energy in a place like that, but I was in the mood for a
plate of junk food.

Marissa dropped us off around 5:30.  Rodney and I wandered around a
bit, following his whims.  I find that if he doesn't get at least five
minutes to see all the games up close, he's too distracted to eat
dinner.  As he had his face pressed on the glass of a mechanical claw
game, I suddenly remembered that I may have still had some leftover
points on my D&B's power card, which I proudly carry in my wallet
beneath my license - half ironically.

We scanned the machine and it whirred to life.  I moved the claw in
position over a little pile of themed rubber ducks, and Rodney slammed
the button with two hands.  The claw sputtered, then lowered over the
bath toys and snagged one by the neck.  Rodney stared through the
glass, puzzled.  "You got one dude!" I yelled.  The duck rolled into
the little metal box above the floor.  I fished it out for him - he
studied the duck then held it close.  We played the claw game one more
time, this time Rod got excited about operating the crane himself.
This game must have been rigged in our favor, because he immediately
snagged another and fished it out.

We found a table, and as we waited for our food, I sipped and we
watched all fifteen plasma TVs simultaneously.  "DAD LOOK.  BASEBALL.
OH DAD LOOK.  FOOTBALL.  OH DAD LOOK, HOCKEY."  I think the real magic
of Dave & Buster's is how good of a job it is at distraction.  It's
really hard to worry about any part of the real world while inside -
not that I had anything to worry about.

Rodney ate a few chicken fingers, and I cleaned a small plate of hot
wings.  As we ate, we chatted about the games we wanted to play and
the sports that were on the TV.  There's not much to talk about with a
three year old, but all things considered, Rodney is great company.
Sometimes he'll even start new topics, like "Hey - where's Momma?"
"Great question, dude.  Do you remember where you last saw her?"

As per usual, we waited a solid twenty-or-so minutes before getting
our check.  Rodney anxiously jumped on the cushioned set, waiting to
be unleashed on some games.  Finally, we paid our bill, recharged our
power card, then spent the evening bouncing from game to game.  Rod
figured out how to spend the points himself, but I did my best to keep
him from burning points on car games, since we had just as much fun
sitting behind the wheel and pretending to drive.  We played a few
rounds of ski ball - he wasn't quite strong enough to get the wall all
the way up to any of the point scoring holes, so we celebrated each
gutterball as if it were a bullseye.

We tried some 'virtual reality', which was named in the most generous
sense of the word.  Really it was a plastic massage chair that shook
while you watched a scary point-of-view vignette that was loosely
based on Jurassic park.  Rodney gripped the metal handles as he yelled
out, "DADAA LOOK DINOSAUR".

We finished off the evening by spending some hard earned points at the
gift shop.  Despite the walls being filled with prizing and us having
a good amount of points to spend, Rodney went straight for a small
D&B's kickball and held it to his side, giving me a look that said
"OK, I'm good."  I had to encourage him to wander a bit and spend the
rest of his points.  We got a sticky hand, a Chinese finger trap, a
ring pop, and a pink bracelet for mom.

After Marissa put Rodney to bed, I snuck into his room for a quick
hug.  I tucked him in as he offered me one final sleepy thanks.  /Desa
dadda play games/.  As few words as possible, but it got the point
across, and it warms my heart just recounting it.

Marissa and I spent the rest of the night catching up on chores,
taking a small break to eat on some french toast and plan some
Christmas shopping.  We wrapped up chores sometime after eleven and
caught up on YouTube videos.  I made the fatal mistake of eating one
to many sport peppers out of the jar, which is why I'm hesitant to
blame D&B's for this morning's indigestion.  Either way, this is
self-inflicted.

Today should be a nice quiet day of work, and after work, I'm really
craving something that will break the junk food streak.  Tonight we
might be having mashed potatoes, some steamed vegetables, and maybe a
chicken breast.  And no sport peppers are going near it.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-11-20 Wednesday corporate wisdom, phineas gage, and communist jenga

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling good this morning.  I
woke up with just a touch of queasiness, and I'm not sure where it
came from.  After eating a bloomin' onion on Sunday and going a bit
hog-wild at D&B's on Monday, I intentionally tried to take things easy
yesterday, but I did reward my efforts with a bag of popcorn.  Who
knows what I'm working through right now.  In between the sentences of
this paragraph, I nibbled on a stroopwaffel, and I'm already starting
to feel better.  Maybe I just needed something to coat my stomach.

Sip.  Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I had a quiet day reading and
working on things, wandering around the office and setting up shop at
different soft spaces.  Lately my favorite place to work is the
seventh floor in the cafeteria.  The broad windows overlook the corner
of the city square, and the capital dominates the scenery.  Even on
gloomy days, it's still inspirational to see the capital standing
strong through it all.  Not to mention, it looks pretty great when
it's dusted with snow.  The ninth floor cafeteria has the same effect,
but being higher up the building, it tends to be a little more popular
for sight seeing.  Working on the seventh floor also minimizes
distractions and interruptions, since it's all salespeople and
marketing.

As I was working, someone sent me a document around conducting code
screens for internship candidates.  I perked up, and immediately
shifted my attention to reading and commenting.  It mildly derailed
what I was already working on, but interviews and code screens are one
of those things which I have a lot of opinions around, and lately at
work I'm trying to get better at disseminating my opinion.  I left
comments, but not too in excess.  Something else I also spoke with my
boss about was the importance of letting people make their own
mistakes.  Not to say that you should treat everyone around you like a
bunch of screw-ups.  Just keep in mind that no matter what you tell
people, they will always trust their own experiences more, so if you
meet resistance and you don't want the rest of your feedback to fall
on deaf ears, just let it go.

Against my better judgment, I finished the day by attending a meeting
that I totally forgot about.  I didn't even remember why I was there.
I usually skip those meetings, because I don't like to just roll up to
a meeting and be a warm body in the corner, but I don't like to be a
complete intellectual burden on everybody and make everyone bring me
up to speed.  I read somewhere that there is never an excuse for
boredom in a meeting.  Instead, you should either be a source of
energy, or you should leave - which is kind of a corporate jedi
mind-trick spin on "I left because I was bored."

I guess I'm in a corporate wisdom mood this morning.  Usually I don't
gravitate to that kind of subject matter.  Maybe whatever is festering
in my stomach has also reached my brain and has started pulling cables
that normally don't get any action.  Wait - yep - there it is.  I
suddenly have the urge to make a Pinterest page.  I feel like buying
nick-nacks on etsy.  I feel like golf - not playing golf, just
watching it on TV.

I kid, but sometimes I think of how fragile a personality is, and I
think about Phineas Gage - that horrible story about that railroad
worker who accidentally got a spike in his head.  And he became
famous - not for surviving the accident - but for becoming a total
crab afterwards.  It's one of those stories that somehow made it into
every elementary school history book, as if Phineas Gage was one of
America's founding fathers.  In our home life, the story of Phineas
Gage lives on as a joke between me and Marissa - usually when one of
us is making the other /shlep/ things around the house.  Marissa will
hand me something sharp, or difficult to store and carry, then out of
a sense of conscientiousness add, "... and don't /Phineas Gage/ me
with that."

After work, we all went to Hy-Vee to pick up some groceries.  Marissa
tagged along to mail some packages, and I leveraged her availability
to also pick me up a new 10-ride.  The Hy-Vee counter is convenient,
but risky if you are trying to get in and out of the store very
quickly. Sometimes there is no wait at all, and the person behind the
counter greets you warmly with pride and professionalism, and the
transaction is over so fast that Rodney didn't even have time to find
something to spill on the floor.  Other times, there are numerous
people in line, and the person at the counter is sweating through
their red polo trying to answer two phone lines while arguing with
some weirdo trying to return juice because /it's defective/.

Marissa joined us later in the store, somewhere around the milk aisle.
We checked out, then I started dinner as soon as we got home.  In the
spirit of breaking the weekend junk food cycle, I cooked two chicken
breasts with some baked brussel's sprouts and mashed potatoes.
Despite all the practice I've had in the kitchen, I still get
raw-chicken paranoia.  As we sat down to eat, I didn't feel certain
about it until I sliced and inspected every piece of chicken on the
plate.  I even popped some of them in the microwave.  What is the
remedy for raw chicken paranoia?  Maybe I need to spend a month
meditating about the randomness in the universe with a bunch of monks
in the mountains.  Maybe I need to get salmonella just once.

After dinner, Rodney, Marissa and I played a game of Jenga as we
enjoyed a bowl of ice cream.  Rodney is now skillful enough to hold
his own, although we never let it get competitive.  "It's communist
Jenga," I joked.  "Whether the tower gets higher or crumbles, we
distribute the pride and blame equally."  Neither of us are
competitive people, and we'd prefer to keep it that way.  Life already
pretty complicated, and sometimes you just want to check out, eat some
ice cream and play Jenga with your toddler without having to explain
why people who like each other sometimes try to beat each other at
things that don't matter in the long run.

After putting Rodney to bed, I talked to my dad on the phone for a
bit.  About two days ago, he extended an invite to go to a tailgate
and a Bears game, and everything just fell into place.  We had some
more details to figure out before he turned in for the night.  "You
guys have almost the same bedtime as Rodney," I teased.  So December
5th, it looks like I'll be attending my first NFL game at beautiful
Soldier Field, and though I'm sure we're going to get murdered by the
Cowboys and publicly humiliated with some kind of coaching blunder,
I'm excited to have the opportunity to share in the live saltiness
with other bitter, like-minded Bears fans.  And what a way to cap off
my first season as - I like how my dad put it - "[someone] who is
suddenly and inexplicably fascinated with the Bears."

Hope you have a great day, everyone.  To sum up, leave meetings when
you're bored, commemorate Phineas Gage when shlepping things for your
spouse, and work as a team when you play Jenga.

*** 2019-11-21 Thursday male morning sickness, homemade popsicles, and bbq youtube videos

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all finding a way to wake up this
morning, with no help from the dark clouds and gloomy weather.  I'm
feeling pretty good this morning, and the coffee is hitting me just
right.  Yesterday morning, I had a bit of nausea, and just as I
starting to fall down a Wikipedia rabbit hole researching how common
sympathetic male morning sickness is, my wife pointed out that she
things the aggressive blend of coffee we've been drinking is probably
the cause.  "Are you sure we're not /both/ just having morning
sickness?  Studies show that it typically begins in men just after the
first trimester," I added.  "And come to think of it, my hormones /do/
feel different."  Marissa rolled her eyes.  "We're already a couple of
weeks into the second trimester, that wouldn't be true anyway."
Alright - so psychosomatic morning sickness ruled out.  And come to
think of it, I did start to feel better once I stopped drinking
coffee.  Marissa had every right to tease me about thinking I had
morning sickness, but she was gracious about it and let it go.

Yesterday morning I worked from home, hanging out with Rodney.  He
quietly watched TV as I worked at the table until Mom got home from
class.  We went out for lunch at Ian's pizza, where I got to finally
try their famous Thanksgiving slice - turkey, stuffing, cranberries,
green beans, and there even may have been a little gravy on there.  It
wasn't life changing, but I guess making something as ambitious as a
Thanksgiving-themed pizza, they automatically get an 'A' if I can eat
the whole slice without dry heaving.  Good stuff, Ian's.  Good stuff.

After we got back, I worked through the afternoon on the couch while
Marissa put Rodney to bed, then took a nap herself.  I played some
sketch comedy in the background at a low volume.  After work, we all
decided to take a trip to Hy-Vee.  Marissa was deep in her nap, and
resisted waking up for any reason, but after we got in the car and
started inching through rush hour traffic to the grocery store, she
said she was grateful I persisted.  "Waking you up is no small task,"
I monologued.  "I'm like a vetted foreign ambassador in a hostile
country.  Every decision in waking you up must be carefully considered
and planned, or it would have catastrophic effects on the geopolitical
husband-wife relationship."

Hy-Vee was busy.  They were having a problem with their POS system,
but we weren't in a hurry.  I was only planning on making pasta
tonight, so as long as we got home with enough time to boil a pot of
water, I was good.  As we stood in line waiting for an available
cashier to punch in our card number by hand, we chit chatted about the
day.  As we shopped, Rodney had brought a popsicle mold over to the
cart and launched into an eloquent defense for why we should purchase
it and make homemade popsicles.  "I'm sold, dude.  But we better pick
up some juice with it or something."

When we got home, I made pasta in meat sauce.  Despite taking a while
at Hy-Vee, I still had a little time in the kitchen to jazz things up.
I snuck in some sliced garlic and a few anchovies into the red sauce
and had some time to simmered it with a bay leaf.  I use bay leaves
when I can and when I'm supposed to, but I still haven't exactly
dialed into what they taste like.  I'm not sure what they add to the
cooking, but I appreciate that seeing a bay leave floating around in
simmering liquid just puts me in the cooking mood.

After dinner, Rodney joined me in the kitchen to take a crack at
making homemade popsicles.  We put some apple juice on the stove and
brought the heat up.  I added a few scoops of sugar and a splash of
vanilla syrup.  Rodney quickly lost interest as soon as he realized I
was just going to stand there and watch it simmer.  As Marissa took
him upstairs for a bath, I filled the popsicle mold with a turkey
baster and stuck it in the back of our freezer.

After Rodney went to bed, Marissa sat in the kitchen trimming frames
while I bumped some music and did kitchen chores.  Afterwards, I made
my way to the couch to watch some YouTube and do some more turkey
research.  I'm had already reviewed brining, stock, and gravy
preparation, so now it was time to wade into the world of homemade BBQ
instructional videos - which is not a world I like to be in.  For most
things you can make in the kitchen, there is probably a no frills,
sensibly made and shot YouTube video explaining how to do it, but for
whatever reason the second you start looking into BBQ the content
quality takes a dive.  There's terrible music, cheesy camera wipes,
rambling pseudo science, and just a touch of bragging to every
explanation that teeters on /mansplaining/.  Also, for some reason all
of these "how to BBQ a X" videos turn into a giant plug for their
favorite rub.  I think I'm just going to wing it this year.

So that's what I got today.  My family is already up, I think Ziggy
woke everyone up when I came out of the shower and she mistook me for
a murderer.  I generally appreciate her vigilance.  So as Rodney is
chatting my ear off as I'm trying to wrap up this entry, I wish you
all a happy Thursday.  Remember, male sympathetic morning sickness is
not as common as you'd think.  Buy a different blend of coffee before
you jump to any conclusions.  Hope you all have a great day today.

*** 2019-11-22 Friday staycations, bars, toothless santas, and mixtapes

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I'd like to congratulate you on making it to
Friday.  We've got a nice chilly weekend coming up, and as for me, I
have the week off yesterday, so I'm feeling especially relaxed.  I'm
looking forward to it.  The last time I took an extended amount of
time off work was probably when my wife and I went to Vancouver.  So
some R&R is long overdue.

Next week is really more of a /staycation/.  We're going to eventually
head up to Minnesota to spend Thanksgiving with Marissa's family, but
in the days leading up to it, we plan on just hanging around the
house.  I have a practice turkey to cook, and it would be nice to
catch up on some half-finished IT projects that have been festering in
our home network.  But worst case scenario, I don't end up with as
much time as I thought I would, and the half built computer case and
sprawling mess of cables will just have to wait until Christmas.

This weekend, Grandpa Wilke is also visiting.  He'll get in late
Saturday night.  He doesn't know it yet, but that's around the time I
hope to have our practice turkey finished, so needless to say if he's
still hungry after rolling off of the plan at night, he'll have an
entire smoked turkey to pick at.

/Sip/.  I've got my Thanksgiving week staycation on the brain, but
yesterday was a pretty good day in its own rite.  My team wanted to
set aside some whiteboarding time to think through something we're
building, and my boss suggested we do it over lunch.  We went to
Cooper's, but it was too busy to find a table, so we had to sit at the
bar.  As we huddled into the crowded bar stools, beers in hand, we let
loose with the teasing.  "Oh yeah," I remarked scanning the room.
"We're definitely going to get a lot done in here.  This is the
perfect place to design software." I teased.  And so our software
planning turned into just a regular lunch, which was fine too.  We
still had the afternoon to throw some time at it.

After work, I took the bus home, and soon Marissa, Rodney, and I were
back in the car to run some errands.  We needed to swing by Home Depot
to pick up some turkey smoking supplies - charcoal, applewood, and two
5 gallon bucks for the overnight brining.  But we started the evening
off at Portillo's.  As we ordered, the cashier handed Rodney a sheet
of stickers, and he quickly got busy attaching them to each of us.  I
got a sticker that said /Shake it Up!/ on my inner thigh.  How
scandalous, right?

After wolfing down some Portillo's, we jumped back in the car and made
our way to Home Depot.  We spent some time milling around and enjoying
the Christmas decorations.  It was a much more welcoming scene than
Home Depot's Halloween decorations.  Rodney was especially grateful to
see them packed away for the season.  But they still managed to get at
least one creepy decoration in.  Standing in front of the row of
Christmas trees was a six foot tall realistic Santa statue.  I stood
close to the figure and made eye contact, taking a moment to
appreciate the creepiness of his features, especially his lifeless
eyes.  "It gets worse," Marissa muttered as she sauntered over and hit
a button on his coat.  Music played, and the Santa's arms began to
stir.  Suddenly he began to sing, slowly blinking and mouthing the
words with dead lips and dry cloth tongue resting lifelessly in his
toothless rubber mouth.  It was probably the worst thing I've seen all
year.

We spent the rest of the early evening driving around Sun Prairie,
dropping off fliers for Marissa's upcoming art gallery in different
coffee shops.  We only head out to Sun Prairie when we go to the movie
theater, so it was fun getting to know the town a little better.  "Sun
Prairie kind of feels like a miniature Greenbay bolted onto the back
of Madison," I remarked.

We finally made our way home, and we went upstairs to put Rodney to
bed.  He still had some energy, so as he polished off the rest of his
sippie cup of milk, I let him play with some of my IT toys.  I dumped
out a bag of HDMI cables and random networking equipment.  He picked
up an orange tool that looked kind of like an mini cattle prod.  "DADA
WASS THIS?" asked Rodney.  "You know what, I'm not sure dude," I
admitted.  "But just in case it's dangerous... I don't know, you can
look at it, but just be ready for anything."  Marissa laughed to
herself in the corner.

Rodney and I said 'goodnight' to the cables, then retreated into his
room for bed.  Marissa spent the rest of the night working, and I made
my way to the couch to tool around with some home project software.  I
was trying to deploy jenkins on my new kubernetes cluster, but -
shocker - it was not straight forward and I had to throw in the towel
around 11.  Marissa joined me on the couch as I was packing my
computer away, and we ended the night by watching Chance the Rapper's
hot ones episode.  I had read online that he didn't finish all ten
wings of death, so I was expecting DJ Khaled levels of hubris (that
may only make sense if you watch the show).  But I actually felt bad
for the guy.  He made it clear from the beginning that he hated spicy
food, and all things considered he handled the heat admirably.  And
even though I wasn't a fan of the music Chance put out this year, I
always appreciate hearing what he was to say.  Chance is also really
great at describing how other rapper's work, which Sean Evens deftly
questioned.  I liked Chance recapping what a Lil' Wayne collaboration
is like, where he "just stands behind you, not swaying or anything,
just standing still in the corner, then suddenly he leaves, tells the
sound guy to cut the music, then records his part with no music in the
other room."

Speaking of music, it's almost time for the - /drum roll/ - Alex
Recker best of 2019 hip hop mixtape.  December is right around the
corner, and since I'm still committed to burning and labeling the CD's
by hand, I had better get a jump on them soon.  I have some good ideas
this year, stay tuned.

Oh, and if we have any readers from Instagram, welcome!  I've started
posting journal entry titles on Instagram - that was a tip from my
wife, and it was exciting to get a miniature surge of fresh Internet
traffic.  Of course, I also love the regular traffic too.  I'm
humbled, and likewise honored by the regular readership.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  It's Friday, go get 'em.  Do
it for the weekend.  Do it for Thanksgiving!

*** 2019-11-23 Saturday sexy chicken fingers, rodney's gibberish, and turkey brine

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  This morning I'm up a little
earlier to get a jump on cooking breakfast, but I'm having a difficult
time getting the blogging juices flowing.  Last night to my utter
horror, I pulled out our glass coffee carafe from the dishwasher and
saw there was a big crack running down the middle.  I could of sworn
this happened a month ago.  So until one of us makes the perilous trip
across the street to Moka in the morning chill, we are coffeeless.
Send help.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  I worked in the morning until
around noon, when Marissa and Rodney met me on the square.  I love
catching Rodney's attention outside in the busy square - usually I can
get within fifty feet of him before he notices me.  He'll yell "DADA"
loud enough for the whole street to hear, then take off running
towards me.  We put some fliers up for Marissa's art gallery in the
coffee shops, then decided to go to Argus for lunch.  We sat in the
basement next to a pool table.

Argus is probably our favorite bar on the square right now.  The food
is good, while still being on the cheaper end.  The beer selection is
great.  And inexplicably, despite these truths, it's never busy.
Their big thing is /sexy/ seasoning, which is really just a
combination of the Cajun seasoning and garlic parmesan seasoning.
It's just a bit over-used.  Kids chicken fingers?  Well, we only have
/sexy/ chicken fingers, would you like us to hold the sexy?  Great -
so chicken fingers - hold the sexy - would he still like a side of
sexy fries?  Yes, he would, my son will have chicken fingers - hold
the sexy - and a side of fries - go light on the sexy.  Can the fries
be lightly sexy?  I was willing to overlook the annoyance, though,
because our waitress brought me an accidental double pour of beer.

After lunch, I waved to my little family as we parted ways.  Rodney
offered be a final YOU'RE AWESOME as I turned away to walk back to my
building.  I worked through the afternoon until our end of the week
meeting.  We finished off the work day chatting in the conference room
and sipping on some beer.  I took the bus home, greeted the family,
then threw together a deep dish dough with Rodney in the kitchen so it
would rise while we bought the rest of the groceries.  At Hy-Vee,
along with tomatoes, garlic, and cheese, we also picked up some bacon
and eggs.  Marissa's dad was going to be spending the weekend with us,
and we were eager to prepare a big breakfast in the morning.

At Hy-Vee, Rodney also picked out a football from a ball bin.  There
was a big bin half-filled with footballs with the Badger insignia, and
half filled with footballs with the Packers logo.  "You can have the
one with the W," I explained.  "The ones with the green /G/ are bad.
We don't bring those in our house."  Rodney tossed the football to
himself as we bought our groceries.  Later, as we were waiting for the
pizza to finish in the oven, Marissa and I sat on the floor tossing
the football to each other.  Rodney was in the middle, having fun just
reaching his arms in the air and trying to block our game of catch.
Rodney knew Pappa Wilke was on his way to our house, and even though
he wouldn't see him until the morning, he was already planning his
part of the weekend.  "DADA - play football with Pappa Wilke?"  "Oh,
dude, that's a great idea.  Add that to the list."

As we ate pizza at the table, Marissa and I chatted about the
weekend, Rodney chiming in with things he wanted to do in between
bites of pizza.  We got on the topic of Rodney's gibberish.  Rodney
knows how to talk, for the most part, but there are still some phrases
he uses that puzzles us.  Phrases like /ICH-ih-MAH/, that continue to
perplex us.  While we had him as a captive audience at the dinner
table, we decided to explore this phrase that has puzzled us since
Rodney started talking.

"Rodney, what does /ICH-ih-MAH/ mean?" Marissa asked.  Rodney nodded
while chewing.  "Yeah," he said.  "/ICH-ih-MAHHHHHH," he replied,
drawing out the last sound as if he was correcting Marissa's
pronunciation.  "What does it mean?"  Marissa repeated.  Rodney
furrowed his brow, then repeated it more slowly.  /ICH-IH-MAHHHH/.  He
held his hand in a claw out in front of him, like he wanted to grab my
wife's mouth.  We're already aware he likes to grab our mouths when he
wants our attention, and we figured they were loosely correlated.  We
were just hoping to unravel some of the mystery behind what the phrase
meant.  But that's as far as we got.  After we finished eating, we
threw in the towel.  "Did you know he can't say /gorilla/?" Marissa
remarked.  Rodney perked up and repeated it: /OKILLA?/

We put Rodney to bed, then spent some time tidying up the house.
Marissa left to pick up her dad from the airport around 11, and I
decided to use the hour before bed to make a turkey brine, which
turned out to be a really fun recipe.  The recipe I was going for
called for 1 cup of brown sugar and 1 cup of kosher salt per gallon of
water.  I had a 5 gallon bucket, and I figured I wanted to fill 4
gallons, trusting the 18 pound turkey's volume would account for the
rest.  At first, I went down the path of trying to calculate the
turkey's exact volume from the average density of turkey meat - which
is really a thing, it turns out people who deep fry their turkey
absolutely need to know this - but I gave up and just decided to
estimate.

So I already calculated I needed 4 cups of sugar and 4 cups of salt.
Here's where it got interesting.  I definitely didn't have room to
store 4 gallons of liquid in my fridge, so my task was to find the
minimum amount of water it took to dissolve the sugar and salt,
trusting I'd be able to dilute it later in the five gallon bucket.  It
took ten cups of water, which would work out perfectly, filling up my
largest Tupperware bin to the brim.  The other tricky part, of course,
was simmering the peppercorns, bay leaves, and garlic cloves without
boiling the solution.  Boiling it would lose water to steam, and then
I'd risk letting the salt and sugar fall out of the solution.

Marissa came home with her Dad just a little after 11:20 - we had the
perfect amount of time to catch up at the dining room table with a
glass of wine and some reheated pizza.  We talked for about an hour
and a half, then sleepily retreated up to our room to bed.

Today, after eating a big breakfast (and introducing Chris to the
wonders of the Dutch Baby), we have a big placeholder in the late
morning for doing something fun with Rodney.  Right now, going to the
downtown science museum is at the top of the list.  Afterwards, we're
going to go for a walk around the Atwood neighborhood and drop off
some more fliers, then finally swing by the Jenny street grocery store
to pick up dinner.  We may stop and get lunch along the way - the
Jenny Street grocery store is right next to a great Laotian
restaurant.

So that's what I got today.  For now, I'm trying to bribe my wife into
making the trip to Moka so I can feel human again.  Hope you all have
a wonderful weekend.  I offer you these sincere, solemn parting
words - /ICH-IH-MAH/.

*** 2019-11-24 Sunday late church, madison restaurants, and surgeon jenga

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Sunday to everyone out there.  This
morning, we're all sitting around the table enjoying some French
toast.  Going to bed last night, when Marissa and I calculated our
wake up times, for some reason we were hell bent on waking up at 8,
convinced the morning would tight.  But we were wrong, and here we are
leisurely enjoying breakfast around the table with plenty of time
before church.  The take-away here is that 11 o'clock church is the
best.  You can stay up late, sleep in a bit, cook breakfast, and
somehow still have time to go to church.  So here's to the 11 o'clock
church service - ride or die!

Yesterday was a wonderful day - once Marissa returned with the
emergency coffee traveler from Moka.  Before then, I was just
wandering around the upstairs of our house like a ghost.  Once Marissa
returned with a box of coffee and I had the first sip, I felt
empowered to start breakfast.  We treated Chris to a typical Recker
family Saturday morning breakfast.  A pair of Dutch babies and bacon.
We took our time around the breakfast table, digesting and drinking
coffee, then head out for the day.  The plan was to take a little walk
around the Atwood neighborhood to leave some art fliers in the coffee
shops sprinkled around the downtown area.  There were even more coffee
shops that I knew about.  As it got later into the afternoon, we
deliberated on a place to eat lunch, and we settled on Lao Laang
Xaang, the Laotion place on Atwood ave.

Lunch was tasty, but the whole experience dredged up an unpopular
opinion we have about Madison, and that is most Madison restaurants
really suck at hospitality.  Don't get me wrong - there are plenty of
places that have good food.  But you may have to wait an hour for it,
and your waitress might huff if you ask for a water refill, and if you
try to order an appetizer it will be forgotten the first time.
Yesterday we watched our waitress nearly collide with a bus boy in the
dining room and she quietly but audibly cussed him out.  She dropped a
plate of crab rangoons that was still dripping with scalding hot oil
in front of Rodney.  For the hour and a half it took to eat lunch and
leave, we probably saw her three times, and two of the times she
complained about how they're running out of dishes in the kitchen.

I know it sounds like I had one bad experience and I'm crudely
fashioning this anecdotal evidence into an ill-thought conclusion, but
we have plenty of other stories.  We've only been cooking regularly
for ourselves for about a year, and for the first five years of
knowing each other, Marissa and I were habitual restaurant hoppers.
"If you had to guess," I later asked Marissa, "what percent of the
visits to any typical Madison restaurant amount to terrible service
experiences?"  Marissa paused for a moment and answered.  "Sixty
percent of them are bad."  Anecdotally, I agree.  And having already
gotten plenty of flack from the Madisonian locals for this theory, I'm
well aware that I'm not going to prove anything to you.  But for any
Madisonians out there reading this, ready to rush to defend the
restaurant scene in our beautiful little city, all I ask is that you
start keep track of how often it takes an hour to get your food, how
often a restaurant will get your order wrong, or - probably the most
egregious thing of all - a waiter makes you feel guilty for showing up
when it's busy.  The worse part about this is that Madisonians are
kind, and most of them probably apologize to waiters and waitresses
that are short with them, or concede to eat their misplaced order and
not make a scene.  The uncomfortable truth is that most restaurants in
Madison can make good food, but most of them are also taking advantage
of how nice the locals are and don't take the same pride in giving
people a good dining experience.  And like I said, I've given up
trying to prove this to people.  Madison is growing, and if I'm right,
the other shoe will drop, and soon even the good, long-suffering
people of Madison will run out of patience for restaurants that treat
patrons like an annoying roommate who keeps raiding their fridge while
they're trying to get work done.

Just putting that out there.  It's a harsh criticism, and it bubbles
to the surface of my brain whenever a friend or family member comes to
visit.  If we eat out twice with them, there is a good chance they're
going to go home with a restaurant horror story.  We're just tired of
being embarrassed by local restaurants

OK, back to the happy Saturday recap.  After lunch, we walked to the
grocery store and picked up some things for dinner.  On the way home,
the bag I was carrying ripped, but luckily the two bottles of red wine
were spared, and only the olive oil broke.  The garlic, cheese, and
beef rolled onto the sidewalk slick and shimmering with oil.  We piled
the groceries into Rodney's blue car stroller.  We got a lot of funny
looks from neighbors pushing a little blue car with two bottles of
wine in the toddler cup holders, but it gave us a good laugh.

We napped as the beef simmered on the stove, and ate dinner in the
evening.  Afterwards, we played Jenga.  I'll tell you this, reader, if
you ever somehow get tied up in a situation where you need to play
jenga competitively, it would be good to have a trauma surgeon on your
team.  Chris probed the wiggly jenga tower with the dexterity
of... well... a surgeon.  Somehow the analogy is less powerful when
it's just the truth.

Well, time to close this entry off.  All the time in our generous
pre-church morning has waned, and somehow I'm only left with ten
minutes to shower and make my self presentable for church.  Hope you
all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-11-25 Monday museums, grapefruit, and the dog that dies in remember the titans

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  We all slept in today - no apologies, and no
regrets.  We have a busy week ahead of us, so we may as well start
stocking up on extra sleep.  This morning, Marissa is snuggling
upstairs with the dogs.  Rodney and I just split a french omelette for
breakfast, and now he's settled in with some comfy clothes watching a
new Blippi episode I just downloaded for him.  I was just in the
middle of making a long list of things I wanted to do today, and the
first of which is "write journal entry".  So here we are!  Let's get
to it.

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  We started things off by eating
breakfast, then heading to church.  We dropped Rodney off at Sunday
school.  Maybe it was the full belly, or the shnazzy red pants and
button down shirt Marissa picked out for him, or just the fact that
Papa Wilke was in town for the weekend, but Rodney was feeling extra
social.  Dropping him off at the door, he actually looked kind of
annoyed with us when we tried to get one last wave and 'see ya later!'
out of him.  That morning, the train table was teeming with toddler
socializing and we were cramping his style.

We attended the 11 o'clock church service, then swung by Sunday school
to pick up Rodman.  We spent some time leering through the high
windows so we could see what he was up to.  Papa Wilke peeked his head
through the door, and Rodney lit up with excitement.  It's not often
we get both a smooth drop-off /and/ a smooth pick-up from Sunday
school, but maybe we'll chalk that up to the "Papa Wilke effect".

We had a fun half-day planned that started with a nice after church
lunch at /Graze/.  Yes, there are some exceptions to my "Madison
restaurants suck at hospitality" manifesto, and Graze on the square is
one of them.  My mind was at ease, knowing Graze is - as repeatedly
proven - one of the good ones.  As we waited for out table, we snapped
some pictures in front of the capital.  We had a passerby take a
picture of all of us, we got some shots of Rodney with Papa Wilke,
then Marissa with Papa Wilke, then just for fun I took one more
picture of Marissa posing with Papa Wilke, zooming out so I could get
an aimless Rodney staring off into the distance in the corner of the
frame.  A candid /and/ a portrait in the same photo - I'd like to see
Ansel Adams do that.

We ate, then after a quick underwear check and potty break, we made
our way a block over to the children's museum.  We had about an hour
to kill before we needed to get Papa Wilke to the airport.  Rodney
quickly took Papa Wilke's hand and led him down slides, up winding
stairs, and across rope bridges.  As Papa Wilke and Rodney explored
every nook and cranny of the museum, Marissa and I sat on a bench and
reflected about taking Rodney here when he was much younger.  "He used
to sit in that room over there for like a whole hour," Marissa
recounted, gesturing at the water activity lab in the corner.
"Remember Rodney was so small, when he put the smock on, you couldn't
even see his legs, and he just looked like a little cartoon character
scuttling over the floor."  During the winter, the kids museum was a
frequent spot for her and the barely walking Rodney.  "I just remember
it being one of the only places out of the house we could take him and
finish an entire cup of coffee," I added.

I love the Kids museum.  In terms of things that make you proud to
live in Madison, I'm sure most might point out our prominent majestic
capital building, our mighty football team, or maybe even the
beautiful lakes that frame our real life Midwestern garden of eden.
For me, it's the kid's museum.  The entire building is so well thought
out - the way each attraction has a place for parents to sit, and
there is usually an inspiring quote painted high over the wall where
you're staring.  The way the broad glass windows make it feel like
there are no walls, and you're just playing on top of a building in
the middle of the city.  As Rodney played with Papa Wilke, I thought
about a quote painted on the wall above a "cow hoisting" pulley
exhibit.  /What is a city but its people?/, attributed to Shakespeare.

When our time ran out, we ushered a reluctant Rodney back out on to
the street and made our way to the car.  He held Papa Wilke's hand and
ran ahead with him.  When we got home, I put Rodney down for a nap,
and we said goodbye to Papa Wilke, thanking him for making the effort
to spend time with us during the busy holiday season.

After Marissa got back from the airport, she and Rodney napped.  I
took the car to Hy-Vee, as my attention shifted to cooking the
practice turkey that had been brining in our fridge in a five gallon
bucket.  This year, I discovered a much more sensible way to build the
smoker - tray in the middle, charcoal on either side arranged for the
/minion method/.  After burning for twenty minutes, the thermometer
was perfectly frozen in place at the 350F mark.  I rinsed the turkey,
stuffed it with shallots, thyme, rosemary, and sage leaves, then
brushed it with herb butter.  As I got the bird on the grill, Rodney
and Marissa slowly emerged from their naps.  Rodney and I decided to
play some football outside while the turkey smoked.  But not even a
simple game of catch was without a Rodney riddles.  He has an
interesting way of playing football.  Before he threw the ball, he put
his hands to his mouth and made a sound like he was howling.  I walked
over to him, puzzled, and crouched down.  "What's that noise, dude?"

He looked at me and narrowed his eyes in thought, like he was trying
to recall the word.  "Wwwwwuuuus.  Yeah, wussss."

"Wuss?" I repeated.  "Wuss, he confirmed."

"Whistle?" I suggested.  "YEAH, whistle," he said, putting his hands
to his mouth and howling like a dog.  We spend a lot of time these
days trying to figure out what Rodney is trying to say, but it's so
funny to me that he forgets the words in his own lexicon too.  Even a
three year old can have a /brainfart/.

As we played catch in the back yard, I tried to give Rodney some tips.
He was enthusiastic, but most of the time the football would hit him
square in the face and roll away.  But as long as I acted like that
was normal, his enthusiasm took his mind off the minor inconvenience.
I tried to offer some tips.  "Keep your hands up, dude."  Rodney
raised his hands over his head.  "OK keep 'em there, I'm going to hit
you right in the chest, be ready for it."  As the ball left my hand,
Rodney, hearing /hit you right in the chest/ took it as a literal
instructions.  He put his hands at his side and held his chest out in
front of him the way Superman would stop a bullet.  The ball hit him
right in the chest.  Rodney gasped for air, then smiled.  I think he
has a future in football, if we can iron out all the communication
problems we have on the field.

We heated up some leftovers.  Just as we finished eating, the turkey
finished.  I shredded the meat up and we sampled it.  There was a
minor, fixable problem in the split grill technique, but all in all,
the turkey turned out great.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I started to get hungry
again.  I cut us up a grapefruit.  Hy-Vee ran out of grapefruit cups,
and earlier that day I had bragged that my family was really good at
cutting up the slices from scratch starting with a whole grapefruit.
We nibbled at the slices, then unconsciously, I started to turn my
half inside out, gnawing at the skin and flesh with my teeth.  From
the corner of my eye, I could see Marissa looking on in horror.
"You're like some kind of grapefruit monster," she said.  I started
laughing as she continued to embellish the observation.  "You know how
vultures have hairless necks so they can fit their whole head inside a
carcass?  That's kind of how you look now, it's awful."  At that
point, I was laughing so hard that I could no longer eat.

We started a movie - after finally finishing the Matrix trilogy, I
spent my pick on /Remember the Titans/.  Marissa had never seen it,
and to get back at her for roasting my wild grapefruit eating
technique, I decided to mess with her.  "It's good," I said "Ah... but
I just remembered, a dog dies."  Marissa recoiled in fear.  "It's OK,
just tell me right before it happens so I can leave the room."

We watched an hour and a half of the movie, and during the scene where
Gary is laying in the hospital, Marissa yelled and broke the silence.
"There's not even a dog in this!"

So that's what I got today.  Today, I have a long list of things to
do.  I'm going to try to make the most of my week off and catch up on
emails, catch up on chores, and maybe even pick up the torch for a
some forgotten home IT projects that have fallen by the wayside.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-11-26 Tuesday replacement coffee makers, target groceries, and kanye conspiracies

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It's a beautiful day today.  If you're not
lucky to be off work today, then I at least hope everyone is being
nice to you today.  This morning we had another late start to the
day.  I cooked breakfast then bothered Marissa and Rodney until they
reluctantly rolled out of bed to join me at the table.  We finally
brought home our replacement coffee maker, and I think having hot drip
coffee back in the morning is having an energizing effect on me.
Don't get me wrong - Moka is good stuff.  But sleepily calling ahead
for a brew box and driving across East wash in my bathrobe is a weird
start to the day, so I'm happy to put that behind me.

This morning, we're rocking the 12 cup Black and Dekker drip coffee
machine.  Sleek, shiny black plastic, a programmable LED clock, and
"steal a cup feature" all at an affordable 19.99.  And yes, I'm going
to hand wash the carafe from now on.  These days I feel like we
replace our coffee maker so often, it kind of feels the trope of
Strongbad breaking his retro, outdated computers and replacing them
with slightly less outdated computers.  If our last Hamilton Beach
machine was the Lappy 486, that would mean we're now on the /Compé/.
I wasn't sure just then which computer came after the Lappy, but one
of the reasons I love the homstar runner fan base is that everything
about the website is carefully documented in a wiki, which I consulted
to make sure that analogy landed accurately.

This morning, we've got turkey at the top of mind.  Marissa and I
formed a game plan at the breakfast table this morning.  Later today,
I'm going to cook up a double batch of brine and keep it in one of our
5 gallon buckets.  Tomorrow morning, we're going to put a frozen
turkey in the other and pad it with ice, and we're going to use our
cooler to transport the other.  We're going to try to do most of our
shopping on Wednesday afternoon, but today I'm going to pick up some
gluten free buckwheat flour.  I have no doubt they'll have it an our
faithful Jenny Street Market, but just in case it's not, there are
plenty of other specialty food shops I can check.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  In the morning, I made a long list
of things to get done, and I sort of chipped away at it all day.  Just
before lunch, my dad stopped by to take me out for a beer, but we
ended up just hanging around the house and eating some leftovers.  We
sat at the dining room table.  I had a beer in my left hand and a cup
of coffee in my right.  It was that weird time of day where that was
somehow OK.  We chatted and grazed on leftovers until about 1, when
Marissa suddenly remembered we had a doctor's appointment.  In a cold
sweat, she checked the calendar and breathed a sigh of relief seeing
the appointment wasn't until 1:30, and it was right across the street
at the new clinic.  It was so perfect, it was almost like we planned
it that way.  We sent my dad on his way and made our way across the
street for Marissa's routine checkup.  After checking baby's
heartbeats and getting a quick, expert blood draw, we made our way
back home.

In the evening, we ran some errands at Target, picking up a new coffee
maker and grabbing a some sweet potatoes and buns for dinner.  Picking
up groceries at Target is risky business.  If you're not careful, you
could wind up spending $7 on asparagus or something, which almost
happened.  Target is a crafty business.  Something tells me that the
secret to their success is their ability to hike up the price
exclusively on the things you didn't realize you need.  We find
ourselves heading to Target because they have cheap prices on
vitamins, paper towels, and Tupperware, but the /oh, while we're here
we might as well get/ mind-set is dangerous.  Beneath the surface
appearance of affordability and convenience lie $4 butter, $7
asparagus, and $5 cheese slices waiting to bamboozle poor,
unsuspecting yuppies.

We made our way home.  I started preparing dinner as Marissa
straightened up the house.  Having passed on the $7 plastic wrapped
asparagus, I had to work with a single can of green beans left over
from Ollie's summer diet.  But after some lemon, butter, a diced
shallot, and some dried mint, they didn't taste half bad.  We finished
off the plate with some leftover turkey smashed on Hawaiian buns,
spread with some hot mustard and mashes sweet potatoes.  Oh, and there
was some sliced swiss on there too.  It turns out we had to get those
from Target after all.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed and after a quick nap on the couch
with Ziggy, I got back to my to-do list.  I caught up on some emails,
one of which was with a friend from college.  We're discussing the
latest Kanye album, and the conversation with him bleed over into a
conversation with my wife while we were milling around the kitchen.

"So if we're still entertaining the idea that Kanye is a secret genius
and /everything/ he does is intentional," I explained, "then just
maybe the album roll out was intentionally patterned after the
ministry of Jesus."

Marissa pursed her lips and shook her head. "Wait wait wait," I
protested, trying to hold her attention.  "I'm not saying this isn't
blasphemous, but this is Kanye West we're talking about.  I'm just
saying - the mysterious listening parties created these droves of
internet commenters /spreading/ the good news?"  Marissa continued
listening, narrowing her eyes to make it clear I didn't have her yet.
"And then he delayed the album indefinitely!"  I continued
passionately.  "No new due date either!  Almost as if... /it died/."
Marissa started shaking her head again, this time wandering away.
Hearing it aloud, I realized this wasn't my strongest theory - even
compared to how terrible these Kanye conspiracy theories usually are.
Back to the drawing board.

So that's what I got today.  After lunch, Marissa is going to take
Rodney to agility practice, which will give me a nice change window to
take down the home network and rewrite my server shelf.  After that, I
have another long list of things to do, and I had better get started.
Hope you all have a wonderful day, and a happy Thanksgiving's Eve's
Eve.

*** 2019-11-27 Wednesday buckwheat, brine, domino's, and mr. bean

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This is no slow morning around the breakfast
table for us.  Today we're looking to pack and hit the road by 10:30.
We're dropping the dogs off at the kennel, then heading to Minnesota.
We expect the weather to be less than ideal, so once we start on the
longest leg of the trip, we're going to take it slow.  I'll stock up
on music, podcasts, paw patrol fruit snacks, and whatever else we need
to get comfortable in long car rides.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  After breakfast, Rodney played in
the living room while I caught up on chores and laundry.  It was a
busy day, since I was working ahead for the time we'd be away from the
house - chores double duty.  Which is absolutely worth it.  Marissa
and I discovered that coming home from a long trip is about 100 times
better if you put a little extra work into cleaning the house before
you left.

Around lunch time, we say around the table and ate the rest
of the leftovers in our fridge.  The leftover turkey meat from
Sunday's practice run dwindled, but what is interesting is that you
can especially taste the brine now that the meat has had some time to
rest in the fridge.  It kind of tastes like turkey meat you would buy
at a deli.

After lunch, Marissa took Rodney to agility practice, leaving me and Ollie
home alone.  Ollie napped in the living room while I caught up on some
computer work.  Left home alone, we're a pretty mellow duo.  Every
thirty minutes or so I like to turn around and check in on Ollie and
ask him what he's up to.  His head will shoot up, alert, and the hair
around his mouth will be flat from sleeping, like the dog version of
bed-head.  Marissa returned from agility practice with Rodney and
Ziggy and put Rodney down for a nap.  We hung out in the dining room,
and I kept working on the computer.

When it came time to decide dinner, Marissa suggested Domino's.  She
smiled sheepishly as I deliberated.  Since I'll find any excuse to
cook, it's not often I succumb to imperfect fast food cravings.  But I
didn't want to add any leftovers to our fridge, and I had to clean the
whole kitchen anyway.  So I signed off on quick & easy Domino's
dinner.

As Rodney napped, I took a trip to Hy-Vee.  I felt like getting out of
the house, and even though it was raining, it was rush hour traffic,
and Hy-Vee was already teeming with panicked, last minute Thanksgiving
shoppers, it felt great to leave the house and do something.  I picked
up some supplies for the brine, as well as some
buckwheat flour.  I thought I would have to get that from a specialty
grocery store, but my research found that it's actually pretty
common.  The only caveat is that sometimes regular flour can
contaminate buckwheat flour if they're prepared on the some equipment,
so you have to find a bag that is /certified/ gluten free.  I'm going
to use it in the gravy, and since I've tasted some really good buckwheat
pancakes and buckwheat noodles, I'm anticipating buckwheat gravy will
be pretty good as well.

After getting home, I started a double batch of the brine on our
stove.  The 20 cups of water barely fit in our largest pot, but it
would work.  I went on to add 8 cups of brown sugar and 8 cups of
flour.  It was fascinating to watch so much sugar and salt get
swallowed up by the water.  Each scoop made a perfect /ploop/ sound
before sliding into the water already darkened by peppercorns.  I left
the heat on low.  

The pizza delivery guy rang the doorbell.  After we opened the door,
Rodney immediately launched into a conversation about Sky from the paw
patrol, asking him about her helicopter.  From the kitchen, I could
hear his confused mumbling as he tried to figure out what Rodney was
saying.  I kind of enjoy it when Rodney puts people on the spot.  He's
eager to talk to people, and it always makes for some interesting
encounters.

We ate pizza on the couch and watched Mr. Bean.  I suppose the jury is
still out as to whether or not Rodney enjoys that show, but it's one
of the few shows that we can all watch together.  Rodney stared
blankly at the TV as we watched Mr. Bean paint his house with a paint
bucket and a stick of dynamite.  I thought that scene would get a
laugh out of him, but after Bean lit the fuse and raced to find his
doorknob, Rodney turned to me and said "TOO SCARY", which has kind of
become his safe word with TV and movies.  Fair enough - back to
Dinosaur Train.  We'll have to give him another year or two to
appreciate Mr. Bean.  To be fair, it's a weird show.  It's never clear
whether or not you're supposed to root for him.  He flicks his tongue
around.  He's generally a jackass to people.  But there are moments
where you're supposed to feel sorry for him, like when he tried
throwing a New Year's Eve party for his two buddies and they moved his
clock forward to leave early.  He's a complicated guy.

Well, it's getting to that time.  It's past 9 now, and we're getting
dangerously close to being late.  We still have to pack our clothes,
pack the car, and I think Marissa has some errands to run before we
leave.  Wherever you are, if you're traveling anywhere for
Thanksgiving, go slowly.  Make sure you are locked and loaded on
podcasts, mixtapes, and paw patrol fruit snacks.

Hope you all have a great day, and a wonderful Thanksgiving.

*** 2019-11-28 Thursday coffee, brine math, hy-vee envy, and noisy dinosaurs

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thanksgiving.  This morning I'm coming
to you from beautiful Rochester Minnesota, which is lightly dusted
with snow.  I emerged this morning from our bedroom about ten minutes
ago moving a little more slowly than I normally due, feeling the extra
couple of "Todd the Axeman" beers I enjoyed before going to bed.
Marissa's family is already up, readying the kitchen for today, and
coffee is brewing in the corner.  As vivid descriptions for low end
coffee makers has kind of become a journaling niche for me, I'll let
you know that this morning their sporting a beautiful 12 cup
Mr. Coffee drip, which from what I can tell was equipped with a splash
guard, configurable brew strength, and a pretty solid carafe that
looks like it could survive even a trip in our dishwasher.

As a side note, it always makes me laugh when these drip coffee makers
have a setting to customize /brew strength/.  If I'm the one putting
water and ground beans in the machine, what other decisions need to be
mad exactly?  If I select /strong/ coffee, does that mean you just
keep some of the water to yourself?  Or spew it out the side when I'm
not looking?  I just don't understand how else you can make coffee
stronger.

Yesterday, Marissa, Rodney, and I loaded the dogs in the car and hit
the road at 10:40.  We seem to have the uncanny ability of leaving
/exactly/ on time.  We were due to drop the dogs of by 11:00, and our
Garmin GPS gave an estimated arrival of 11:01.  As our CRV rambled
onto the highway, Marissa and I spot checked our packing list.  Ziggy
curled on my lap, winking in and out of sleep to the swaying of the
car.

Marissa ran in to drop the dogs off.  Over Thanksgiving they are
staying at the highly reviewed Aunt B's Dog and Cat spa.  Looking at
the website together, Marissa and I laughed at all the extra luxury
packages - swimming, a jacuzzi, massage.  Even though these things
might be relaxing by themselves, we decided not to spring for the
/true/ Aunt B's experience in the interest of not freaking out Ollie
and Ziggy.

We stopped for some gas and Culver's, and after wolfing down some
chicken tenders in the parking lot, I took over driving for the
longest leg of the journey and jumped back on the highway.  I queued
up some podcasts.  Marissa closed her eyes, and Rodney quietly read
books in his car seat.

We arrived in Minnesota sometime in the afternoon, and after bringing
our stuff in the house and saying hello to everyone, Marissa and I
went downstairs to water down the brine and get the turkeys in the
fridge.  We had warned Tom and Renee that we would need to fit two 5
gallon buckets in the fridge, which was a tall.  If you caught it,
there was a shot of the single 5 gallon bucket in my Instagram story
and it practically took up our entire fridge.  Tom was still convinced
it wasn't going to work.  We had brought the turkey packed in ice in
our cheap & trusty blue Walgreen's cooler, and then it suddenly
occured to us to keep one of the Turkeys in the cooler.  Fitting a
bucket and a small cooler was doable.  We still needed the buckets to
finish diluting the brine, as I made two batches of a concentrate
meant for 4 total gallons of water, but I just fished out the garlic &
shallots and filled the cooler with what would fit.  I'm not going to
lie to you, reader.  This year, one of my favorite things about turkey
preparation has been turkey brine math.  The hurried back of the
napkin math around concentrations & dilutions makes me feel like I'm
back in the chemistry lab again.

Once the birds were in the fridge, we left Rodney with his auntie
Megan and auntie Maya to pick up some groceries from Hy-Vee.  Marissa
warned me that the Rochester Hy-Vee was probably going to make me
envious.  "Hy-Vee was started in Minnesota - we have Hy-Vee pride.
It's a /really/ good Hy-Vee," she said as she absentmindedly navigated
her hometown roads.  Before we jumped on the main road, Marissa felt
compelled to drive down her childhood street.  She slowed the car as
she passed by her old house.  The garage was open, and somebody was
getting groceries out of the car.  Marissa and I craned our necks to
catch a peek at the garage corner.  A fall leaves mural she painted on
the garage wall was still there.

We parked at Hy-Vee and walked inside.  Marissa was right, my heart
was bitter, welling with Hy-Vee envy.  They had a real Starbucks at
the front of their store.  They had a food court.  The had a whole
cooler full of European style sausages.  The seafood section alone was
probably as big as a FedEx Kinkos.  Hy-Vee envy, indeed.

Marissa ran through our list, and stopped in our tracks when we got to
the herbs section.  Expectedly, they were out of thyme, rosemary, and
sage.  I kicked myself, remembering the neatly labeled ziploc bags in
our fridge at home that I decided not to bring.  One of the Hy-Vee
workers empathetically shrugged, "Yeah sorry, the truck couldn't make
it here because of the weather."  Luckily, we were able to pick up
some dry versions of the herb from the spice wall.

After returning with the groceries, we all went out to eat at the
country club.  We scooted into a booth, Rodney holding his new
dinosaur truck toy proudly under his arm.  But we quickly realized
that the little toy dinosaur made a wonderful, bombastic sound that
echoed through the restaurant, and being good polite midwesterners, we
explained to Rodney that it made too much noise to enjoy during
dinner.  I kept the noisy dinosaur at my side, and Rodney contentedly
played with just the dump truck portion.  Later, as the dining room
cleared, I produced the dinosaur from under the table and let Rodney
play with it - to reward his patience.

So that's what I got today.  After this entry, I'm going to pour
another cup of premium regular strength Mr. Coffee coffee and head
downstairs to wake up my family.  We've got a pair of birds to cook.
My grill is proudly standing on the front step, and I'm about to offer
a fragrant sacrifice to the gods of home cooking.

Happy Thanksgiving, everyone.  Oh, and Bear Down!

*** 2019-11-29 Friday thanksgiving

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy black Friday, if that even is a real
holiday.  And speaking of which, I'm even starting to wonder if Black
Friday is even still a think.  Watching from the sidelines as Marissa
hunted for online deals last night, I didn't notice anything special.
I'm not one to hunt for discounts and hoard coupons, but from what I
observed, Black Friday is nothing to make a fuss about.

This morning I'm coming to you again from Rochester Minnesota at my
official, unofficial morning writing spot at the kitchen bar.  Megan
has a baking sheet lined with Christmas cookies on the counter, the
family is watching TV in the sun room, and Marissa is slowly winding
up for the day downstairs in our bedroom.  I'm rocking a low roar of a
headache, but a fresh pot of coffee is inbound.

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  We rolled out of bed sometime around
eight.  I had about an hour to kill before we needed to start
preparing to make turkey.  The house was already buzzing with
anticipation and nervous energy.  Everyone was due to arrive at noon,
and dinner on the table at 2.  Marissa and I sleepily pulled the
turkeys out of the brine, rinsed them in the basement sink, and padded
the birds dry with wads of paper towels in between sips of coffee.  We
laughed like school kids each time the legs flopped open, or one of
the birds happened to rest in an awkward position.

After we dried the birds, we carefully walked them upstairs and
cleared space on the kitchen counter.  We seasoned them, and
delicately spread butter under the skin.  When you take a step back
from tradition and look at the activity of preparing a turkey on its
own merit, it's kind of a bizarre ritual, isn't it?  Spreading butter
underneath the skin is certainly a weird sensation.  "Nobody look me
in the eye," I announced in the kitchen.

We tied the birds and got them respectively in the grill and oven at
11:02 AM.  Still on track.  Marissa started her bird in the oven hot,
but my grill was taking some time to warm up.  To solve the uneven
burning problem I encountered in this year's practice run, I counted
the number of charcoals in each chamber.  Forty on the left and forty
on the right - sounds like something out of the Old Testament, doesn't
it?

As Marissa and I monitored the temperature, people started to trickle
in.  I'm not going to lie, reader, I'm not a great multi-tasker, and
Thanksgiving prep this year was a challenge.  I had a turkey on the
grill (which despite carefully counting the charcoal, was still
suffering wild heat swings), a turkey in the oven, and to top it off,
the Bears were playing the Lions, and they were losing.  As the
football game flickered on the small kitchen TV in the corner, somehow
our struggle in getting dinner prepared and the Chicago's struggle in
beating the incredibly beatable Lions felt the same.

While watching the turkeys, there was about ten minutes of peace where
I was able to forget about everything, and that was when Sister
Marlene gave me a tour of her fantasy football team.  "Back when I was
a Math teacher, I was the only woman on the faculty," Sister Marlene
explained.  "So all the men made a big deal about fantasy football,
and I got into it with them."  Her eyes lit up as she went on, "but
Alex, we didn't have computers to do this for us.  I had to gather the
stats myself, copying them from a newspaper.  But now look what they
do!"  Marlene pulled out her phone and showed me her team, the people
she was competing with, and her league's standings.  Her gratitude for
the convenience of a modern fantasy football app was palpable.  "But
aren't you a Vikings fan?  What about Kirk Cousins, is he on your
team?"  Sister Marlene paused and looked at me, silently shaking her
head.  I could respect that.  You root for your team when they play,
but at the end of the day, numbers don't lie.

Marissa's turkey came to temperature first.  It was much sooner than
we expected, and looking back at the recipe we were supposed to drop
the temperature, which we forgot.  But we improvised.  Like Mitch
Trubisky throwing on the run, we simply took the bird out and padded
it in tinfoil.  Meanwhile, my turkey was running out of heat.  I
excused myself outside to stoke the fire.  Finally, the temperature
hit 350F again.  After a quick baste, I shut the lid snug, resolved to
not touch it again for a full hour.  As the bird on the grill
finished, I started to prep the gravy.  As I strained the turkey stock
and melted the butter, I suddenly remembered I never googled if
buckwheat gravy was even possible.  I did enough research to confirm
it was gluten free, and aside from a distant memory of trying
buckwheat pancakes at a diner, I assumed it would behave exactly like
flour.  "I guess we'll find out if it's possible," I thought to
myself.

The butter cracked and spurted in the pan.  I dumped in half the flour
and stirred.  The mixture fizzled, and the distant familiar scent of
buckwheat pancakes filled the air.  I let the roux cook for a few
minutes, but as buckwheat was a little darker than regular flour, I
figured it would be a bad idea to go by color alone.  I dipped a
finger into the hot roux and tasted it.  It burned my finger like a
hot needle, but the mixture tasted toasty, comforting, and pleasant.
I whisked in the turkey stock, added salt and pepper, and went in for
a final taste, offering Marissa a spoonful as well.  "It tastes like
gravy!"

The Bears took the lead in the third quarter.  My turkey had about ten
degrees to go.  We were in the endgame now.  The gravy had reduced a
bit and Marissa and I moved it to a hot gravy boat.  At 2:01, we moved
both turkeys to the table.  The family gathered for the big reveal.
They sounded like a sitcom studio audience as we removed the foil and
cut the string.  The birds turned out really well.  Despite heat
issues, mine was not undercooked, and Marissa's was not overcooked.
By a hair, both the Chicago Bears and the Recker family had victory.

We sat at the table, prayed, and dug into our feast of turkey,
potatoes, stuffing, creamed corn, and cranberry fruit salad.  The rest
of the day was a blur of snacking, napping, and family time.  After
cleaning up from dinner, Marissa's family crashed on the couches in
the sun room to watch a movie.  "How about Jingle All the Way?"  I
suggested.  The Redalen family gave me blank looks, and suddenly I
felt lucky to introduce them to one of the silliest, most unique
Christmas movies ever made - and a big talking point for Minnesota
pride!

It was a great day, and I have plenty to be thankful for.  Whether
we're talking about my family in Minnesota, my family at home in
Chicago, my immediate family that can all still fit on our blue
three seat sofa at home in Madison, or my distant family flung all
over the country perhaps reading this entry right now, I'm thankful
for family.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  As for us - and speaking of
family - we're about to pack the car and go pick up our furry
four-legged family.  Hope you all have a great, relaxing weekend.

*** 2019-11-30 Saturday pancakes, driving, mixtapes, and rodney's computer fiddling

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Although it's already getting into the
afternoon, so that greeting may be inaccurate.  You see, I lost track
of time this morning.  The plan was to let the dogs out, brew some
coffee, then crank out a couple of pancakes for the family to entice
them to come downstairs.  It was my fist time following the recipe,
and it made for a much larger batch than I had planned.  Twenty
pancakes later, here I am.

To add to that, the pancakes are really filling.  I was teasing
Marissa about barely finishing one of them, then after digging in
myself, I too stopped short of a standard double stack.  The stack of
eighteen remaining pancakes seemed that much funnier.  "It would
probably take us a week to eat all these," I said.

It's a good recipe to keep in my back pocket, I guess.  Every now and
then, you have to cook for someone whose stomach is seemingly a
bottomless pit, and these super dense, fried pancakes could serve the
same purpose as that ballistics gel used in the old Mythbusters TV
show - stopping any bullet /eventually/.

As Marissa and Rodney sat eating, me in the kitchen finishing up the
last pancake, I joked that the situation kind of reminded me of the
that episode of the office during the "Michael Scott Paper Company"
arc where Michael just kept making pancakes.  Marissa has a gallery
tomorrow and has lots of prep to do, so the joke landed with her and
resonated with the situation.

Now that we're all fed and happy, Rodney is sitting on the couch
watching Blippi, Marissa is starting to get things organized for
tomorrow, and I retreated into our bedroom to write.

Yesterday was a great day.  We rolled out of bed in Rochester in the
late morning, packed the car, and departed just before lunch.  We
stopped for some bagels and hot coffee, then Marissa and Rodney dozed
off, leaving me to listen to my boring tech podcast.  We got home in
the early afternoon, dropped off the grill to free up space in the
car, then turned right back around to get on the highway and pick up
the dogs.  They came bursting through the doors circling us
frantically.  Rodney excitedly dropped on the floor to meet them.
Fellow dog owners might be with me on this, but you really don't feel
like you're home again until your dogs are there with you.

On the way home, we picked up Portillo's.  After our late lunch, I
unpacked the car while Marissa started setting up Christmas
decorations.  We had planned on picking up the Christmas tree from
Hy-Vee that day, but we decided to stay in.  We had plenty of
leftovers to tide us over through dinner, and it just felt so good to
be home again.  To set the mood, I threw together a Christmas list
that, at Marissa's request, was heavy on the Celine Dion.  Marissa has
a real gift with Christmas decorations.  Every year she outdoes
herself, and looking back at when we were first married and I insisted
on taking care of all the Christmas lights.  I wish we had
photographic evidence of the sad strings of lights I haphazardly flung
around the house, but that has yet to surface.

Rodney had a lot of energy from sleeping in the car and finally being
in his own house, so it was a relief to put him to bed.  He fell
asleep immediately.  Marissa was still working downstairs, and I
decided to throw a couple hours of work into my annual mixtape.  I
made it through three tracks.  This year, I'm being a lot more liberal
with editing things.  A lot of the music I listened to this year was
either live or part of rougher cuts, so it's definitely necessary.  I
had such a wonderful time learning how to cut, cross fade, and
equalize tracks with Audacity.  Good things are coming - keep your
eyes peeled for the finished product.

After I called it a night with the music mixing, I joined Marissa
downstairs.  We had sort of skipped dinner, so I heated up some
leftovers and enjoyed them in the dining room, watching the office.

It feels good to return home at the beginning of a weekend.  That
dread around starting another regular work week still feels far off.
Today, we're going to help Marissa get ready for her gallery, and if
we get enough work done and Marissa feels prepared, we're going to go
see a movie tonight.  It will likely be Frozen 2, which depending on
which critics you trust, is either twice as better as Frozen 1 or "an
avalanche of half-formed ideas".  Citation pending for that one -
Marissa read it off of Facebook and the soundbyte still makes me
laugh.  I'll be even happier if it's true.

I'm having a hard time cranking out the last two hundred words this
morning.  Rodney joined me upstairs and is fiddling through my spare
IT parts.  I've always made a point out of letting him play with
whatever computer junk interest him, even if he's just trying to pry
off the cover of an old CD drive using a microphone USB, as he's doing
now.  He's also wearing a pair of behind the ear headphones, as if
he's taking instructions from a command center.  It's distracting, but
only because I like watching him figure things out.  Even though he
has no idea what he's doing, he looks like he does, and that
fascinates me.

That's what I got this morning.  Hope you all had a wonderful
Thanksgiving, and that you're home safe.  And if you don't have turkey
to eat, I recommend making some pancakes.  And like Michael Scott, you
should just push off all your responsibilities for the day - at least
until you are out of pancake batter.  Maybe wear a pair of crocs in
the kitchen too, just to complete the real life Office reference.
Thanks for reading.  Here's to Saturday!

** 2019-12 December

*** 2019-12-01 Sunday wet christmas trees, frozen 2, and tiny metal hooks

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  And happy December!  It's always exciting to
roll into another month, isn't it?  Visually, seeing 'December' on the
calendar is a little terrifying, as now I'm starting to think of
everything I need to get done in the month of December.  Christmas
shopping, Secret Santa contests, end of the year writing - this month
it all piles up.

It's gallery day, and we're up a little earlier than normal to get
ready.  Certainly no time for a pancake party this morning.  Today we
have to pack the car and set up everything at the Goodman Community
Center by ten.  Also, sometime today I have to pack Rodney for a
little trip to Grandma & Grandpa's house.  Today, he's going home with
my parents, and we'll pick him up again when we see them this weekend.
So this morning, I'm looking to quickly crank out a journal entry
before the business and general running around begins.

I think this will be a weird week.  I have off work this Thursday and
Friday for the Bears game & our Chicago gallery prep and Rodney will
be away.  And while it sounds like an opportunity to /wild out/, I'll
probably just use the extra time in the evening this week to clean my
closet or get ahead of December to-dos.  Maybe I'll briefly pick back
up the nesting power hour, which I had to take a break from.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  We started the day slow, eating
pancakes and sitting around the dining room table talking about the
weekend.  I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa got ready for her
gallery.  After cleaning up from breakfast, I purchased three movie
tickets for Frozen 2 at our favorite theater.

We had plenty of time before we needed to get to the theater, so we
used it to go buy a Christmas tree at Hy-Vee.  Admittedly, we rushed
our decision a bit.  It was cold and drizzling, and after all the hype
around letting Rodney make the ultimate decision of which tree we'd
take home, he was only interested in jumping in the puddles collecting
in the parking lot.  "Rodney, touch this tree," I said, gesturing at
me and Marissa's choice Frasier.  Rodney hesitantly patted the tree.
"Look!  He made his choice, he wants this one," I joked.

After buying the tree, the guy made quick work of wrapping it in
plastic, hoisting it up to the roof of our car, and tying it through
our open doors.  We made our way home, and with great effort we
carried it inside.  The rain worried us a bit - we didn't want to set
up the wet Christmas tree in our living room only to have it drip
rainwater all over the place, but amazingly the tree was already bone
dry.  I guess with the thousands of little pine needles and oily sap,
they're already designed to be water resistant.

We put Rodney down for a nap, and I flopped on the couch and caught up
on YouTube videos until a little after five.  It was time to make our
way to the movie.  We jumped in the car and made our way to the
theater.  We got there about an hour early so we could find a seat at
the bar and eat some dinner before heading in.  Marissa and I ordered
the boneless wings, which were only five bucks, since the Badgers were
playing the Gophers in college football.  The game was already in the
final minutes of the fourth quarter.  Families sitting in the dining
room were glued to the big projector playing the game.  In the last
minutes of that game, I learned a lot about the college football
rivalry between Minnesota and Wisconsin.  When the game was over, the
Badgers rushed the field and seized a giant wooden axe leaned up
against the goalpost.  "Paul Bunyan's Axe" traditionally goes home
with whoever wins this game, which always takes place the Saturday
after Thanksgiving.

Watching the game with Marissa, we chatted about college football.
This year, following professional football much more closely, we have
a refreshed perspective.  "I think I'm starting to get why it's so
exciting," I pondered.  "The players make more mistakes, and the plays
are bigger.  It's like everything ends in a diving catch or an eighty
yard run."  Marissa nodded.  "It's more youthful, too.  It feels like
the players have more energy."

It came time for us to pay the bill and find our seats to see
Frozen 2.  Rodney stood in line with Marissa to buy some popcorn while
I ran back to the car to see if we remembered to bring an extra
diaper.  We ended up making it through the evening without needing
one, but it's good to be cautious.

About fifteen minutes into Frozen 2, Marissa and I looked at each
other, giving each other the /this movie is going to be terrible,
isn't it/ eyes.  And it was.  Frozen 2 was grotesquely bad.  None of
the songs were catchy, and everything about the movie required so much
extra context and explanation, I felt like I was watching Star Trek.
I don't want to spoil anything, so I'll leave it at that.  Maybe just
lower your expectations a bit.

There were also a lot of callbacks to the first Frozen - which is
never a good sign, isn't it?  Like the movie was begging us for our
enjoyment - /remember that movie you liked?  That's us!  We made that
movie.  So you like this one too, right/?  So it pleases me to say
that Frozen 2 was, indeed, an /avalanche of half-formed ideas/.

My 'moment of zen' during Frozen 2 had to be when Marissa got up to
use the bathroom, and it was just me and Rodney in the big recliners.
Frozen 2 was in the middle of introducing some kind of tiny lizard
character, as if they didn't have enough marketable characters
already.  Elsa broke out into song, and Rodney reach up to my mouth
and casually popped a wet sweet tart in between my teeth.  "HERE YOU
GO," he said loudly enough for the whole theater to hear over Elsa
singing.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I watched TV while working on
paintings.  Marissa taught me how to screw the hanging hooks into the
wood frames and tie them together with a thin piece of wire.  It took
me about twenty minutes to finish the first one, and eventually I gave
up on twisting the tiny metal hooks and stuck to just tying wire.
There's so much mastery in her process, even in the small things that
follow making the actual painting.  It baffles me how she's able to
apply enough force to that small metal hook to twist it through the
wood in a single fluid motion.  The process that took me ten minutes
at my best took her about 45 seconds in a casual demonstration.  "It's
ok," Marissa assured me.  "I've had a lot of practice.  I get blisters
from this, you know."

So that's what I got today.  Today, a new month - tomorrow, a new
week.  A half week, anyway.  Hope you all have a great day today.

*** 2019-12-02 Monday art, rest, and my mother the engineer

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I'm back to our regularly scheduled program,
up at 6:30, journaling by 7:30, and out the door by 8:00 sharp.  And
even though I'm beginning what might be my shortest work week of the
year, I'm still having a hard time waking up this morning.  We'll see
how that pans out.  At least I have the first hour of work to keep
waking up.  Being out for a week, it takes about an hour to catch up
on missed emails and slack messages, and while that's important work,
I can definitely get it done with half the brain capacity and use the
time to drink more coffee.

This morning also feels a little weird because Rodney is staying with
grandma and grandpa.  And since Marissa is a heavy sleeper, today I
did a lot less tip-toeing than I normally due.  And I didn't have to
clamber over the baby gate at the top of the stairs.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  We got out the door and set up at
the gallery just in time for people to start trickling in.  After a
couple of hours, I took Rodney home to make some lunch, and when we
returned I surprised her with an oven warmed casserole dish filled
with some leftover turkey sandwiches, warm stuffing, and mashed yams.

As a side-note, do you remember when Jon Stewart use to end each
episode of the Daily Show with a "moment of zen", which was just a
bizarre 10 second snippet taken from an offbeat political interview or
a weird interaction on cable news?  That concept has been making me
laugh lately, and if I had a moment of Zen yesterday, it was when I
was home alone with Rodney.  I had a pot of sweet potatoes boiling, I
was trying to start a load of dishes, the washing machine went off in
the basement, and Rodney called me over to the dining room table to
give him a high five.

Toward the end of the gallery, my mom and dad showed up and hung
around with Rodney while Marissa and I packed the car.  We made our
way home, and they sat at the dinner table and briefed for the week
with Rodney while I packed his clothes upstairs.  I joined them
afterwards, and even talked them into snacking on a leftover pancake.
As we gave them the Rodney rundown, I couldn't help but marvel as an
observer at how complicated Rodney is these days.  Before we could
talk, it was just a matter of occasional food, a daily nap, and
frequent diaper changes.  But now he's got all these weird rituals,
intertwined with his own way of speaking and seeing the world.  Last
night, over slack my Mom told us that he threw a bit of a pity party
before bed because she didn't know what he meant by /piggies?/ "That's
when you tuck each of his toes into the blanket before bed," Marissa
explained.  "How do you even do that?"  As we sat on the couch, I
laughed and joined in, "tell her that you more or less just pretend
to - it's more just a variation of your typical before bed tickling."

As my parents were preparing to leave with Rodney, my mom poked around
in my kitchen.  She compliment how clean my fridge was.  And that was
high praise, because my mom keeps a very clean fridge, and having just
returned from Minnesota over Thanksgiving and rolling right into an
art gallery, the house was still kind of in disarray.

I think in another life, my mother would have made a good engineer.
She's a natural optimizer, and one of the best examples of it was
yesterday, when even as she had an immediate grasp of how I organize
my fridge and was complimenting it, she was still compulsively fixing
the orientation of the labels - which I found in no way off-putting.
I usually turn the labels forward myself.

I meet lots of people, like my mother, who don't think of themselves
as computer people but would have made great programmers.  Marissa
would tell you that I've rambled about how organizing data on a
computer is, in spirit, exactly the same as organizing food in your
fridge.  Get rid of the garbage, minimize duplication, and sacrifice
easily accessible spots for things you frequently access.  Because
you'll only reach for the Korean gochu paste about once a month, it
can afford to be on the bottom shelf behind the specialty mustard.
Something you use every day should be the first thing you see when you
open the door - like the milk or butter.

We waved goodbye to Rodney on the front porch, then Marissa took a
well-deserved nap on the couch while I unpacked the car.  She admitted
to me during the gallery that she pulled a late-nighter to finish the
inventory she's be displaying at Goodman.  But you'd never know it
talking to her - I got a cool six hours of sleep, and she was more
chipper than me all day.

Around 6:30, we put the dogs away then jumped in the car to find
somewhere to eat.  As a parent, it's always weird seeing how quickly
you can go places without having a kid to worry about.  After putting
our shoes and coats on, we stood there for about a second at the door,
like we were both surprised there was nothing left to gather up.

The biting winter air put us in the mood for ramen, but after making
the perilous & windy trip downtown, we discovered that Morris ramen
was closed for Sunday evening.  After some grumbling, we drove to
Umami instead.  We had a nice dinner, chatting and watching snapchats
from my mom and dad.  Rodney was eating dinner and playing with a snap
bracelet.

When we returned from dinner, Marissa and I collapsed on the couch and
watched sketch comedy reruns.  We only got up a handful of times to
get a snack, pour a drink, or play with the dogs, who were wildly
running of their day cooped up in the house.  Remember I talked about
using the time without Rodney to catch up on chores and do special
projects?  I'm already starting to think the time would be better
spent not doing a damn thing at all.  It felt good to unplug and
relax, and even though I'm coming off of a week vacation, we've spent
very little time acting like we're on vacation.

So today, back to the office for a short work week.  I work until
Wednesday, then I have off for a Bears game and another art gallery.
After work, Marissa and I are going to go to the grocery store and
pick up dinner.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Happy December!  If you have
a full five day week this week, take heart.  I bet you've got some
time-off coming, and it's right around the corner.

*** 2019-12-03 Tuesday garlic, christmas lights, and dinner at the bar

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Are you feeling good this morning?  I'm
feeling good this morning.  Over the weekend, both Marissa and I had a
scratchy throat that was threatening to turn into a soar throat.  But
it either could have been just the exhaustion of traveling, eating
fast food on the road, or maybe we really were about to get sick and
we just caught it in time.  I heard somewhere that garlic can help
boost the immune system, so last night I made sure to sneak in at
least three fresh cloves into our dinner, and then just to make sure I
made a small batch of /garlic confit/.  That's basically just garlic
simmered gently in olive oil, and it's a great way to use up the rest
of what you buy for dinner.  So this morning, there's lots of garlic
in my stomach, and I'm feeling good.  And even if that is just a
placebo, how many other placebos enable you to eat as much garlic as
you want?  That's not so bad, is it?

I'm kind of amazed that we've made it this far into the winter season
without getting sick.  Normally we pick up at least one case of the
sniffles heading into the holidays, but then again maybe it's all the
garlic we're eating.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  I started the day off with a team
meeting, then trotted up stairs to the Ki Gong session.  We spent the
first ten minutes of class just swinging our arms, bouncing on our
knees, and chit chatting about the holidays.  Often I've described Ki
Gong to people as "that thing you see old people doing in the park,"
but having attending plenty of classes this year, that's now hitting
me as an unfair summary.  Ki Gong feels like a little bit of yoga,
meditation, and self-guided physical therapy.  And yes, sometimes we
do the kind of moves you see old people doing in the park, but in an
undeniably cool way.

After Ki Gong finished, I wandered into the work day.  I got a good
jump on my tasks for this week and ended up finishing a lot more than
I had planned for the day, so I teed up some more experimental work
for the next day, and decided to catch up on some reading I had missed
last week.  After the work day, I jumped on a bus and headed home.

As I walked up our driveway, Marissa was sitting on the front porch
with the dogs tied up with their leashes.  She was holding a cup of
coffee and smiling.  Without even making the mental connection that
she had worked all day on the Christmas lights and could probably use
some encouragement, I instead growled at her about a small extension
cord routed across the side walk.  "That's gonna trip somebody," I
snapped like a grumpy old man.  "Marissa meekly nodded, then after we
walked inside, she confronted me about not noticing the brilliant
Christmas lights in the front yard.  I felt horrible, so before
leaving for the grocery store we wandered back out to the front yard
for a gander.

We picked up dinner at Jenny Street then returned home.  As I cooked
in the kitchen, Marissa tidied up the living room.  All evening, we
couldn't help but remark at how much extra time we had with Rodney
staying at my parents' place.  "Earlier today, I thought I would have
to take a break because I wouldn't get through it all, but I looked at
the clock and it was only three o'clock!" Marissa recounted.  I felt
the same kind of relief - dinner came together pretty quickly, and
within about an hour I had a casserole dish packed with two warm bowls
of stammpot, gravy, sausages, a dish of applesauce, and a warm
sourdough loaf.  We walked out dinner over to the malthouse and found
a table in the back.  Becky the bartender walked over and lit the
candle on the table.  "This should complete your candle light dinner,"
she laughed.  Peeling back the foil on our stammpot, the smell started
to leech into the rest of the bar.  "I feel like kind of an asshole,
but I don't mind," I laughed.  "Yeah people order pizza in here all
the time, I don't see how that's any different," Marissa added.

As we ate, we emptied our backlog of snapchats we got from my mom and
dad.  We watched Rodney eat dinner, go shopping, and kick around a
soccer ball in his pajamas.  As we were finishing, a local band
started to set up in the corner.  We were almost done with our drinks,
so we decided to only stay for two songs.  "Our neighborhood has a lot
of good folk bands," I said as we left the bar.  "But do you ever get
the feeling that all these bands are made up of the same four or five
dudes?"

When we got home, Marissa and I spent most of the evening cleaning up
the house.  Later in the evening, Marissa beckoned me upstairs to
Rodney's room, which she had just finished vacuuming.  It looked so
cozy.

I finished the night on the couch watching YouTube videos while
Marissa decorated the tree.  I had lots of Bears news to catch up on.
Yesterday, the Bears announced that Akiem Hicks was at practice, which
bodes well for our game against the Cowboys.  Even though our playoff
chances are slim, at least I'll get to see Hicks and Mack play
together at the game on Thursday, which will be a treat in itself.

Today should be a good day too - more of the same.  Getting lots of
work done, vicariously enjoying Rodney's week through snapchat, and
later we're going to go out to eat with some friends.  Marissa decided
that on Wednesday, we're going to sit down and plan out the whole
weekend.  "I kind of just want to stare at a map and study all the
places we'll be this weekend," I said.  Marissa nodded.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday today.
Eat garlic, swing your arms, and bring a home cooked meal to the bar.

*** 2019-12-04 Wednesday friends, idle time, and vegan food

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  I've finally made it to the
end of this short work week.  Yesterday I spent most of the day
quietly writing code with my headphones on, and while it would have
been sweet if it all worked the first time pushing it out without
making any changes, code doesn't usually work that way.  At four
yesterday, as I read the output of the jenkins job, I shook my fist in
the air.  Failed.  Since then I feel like there was a single thread in
the back of my brain still working on it - almost as if that software
bug is keeping me from starting my midweek vacation.

Normally, on Wednesdays I work from home, but being my last work day
this week I decided to go in today.  It will be easier to focus, and
it will probably give Marissa more room to move things around the
living room and finish painting.  She decided to paint the walls a
different color, and while I'm not the most in tune with subtle color
changes, the walls she's finished make me feel just slightly more
relaxed than they did before, so overall it was a net positive,
imperceptible change.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  Like I mentioned, I spent most of
the day hacking away at a new automated job.  While working, I
listened to the early draft of my 2019 mixtape, taking down notes of
small things that need editing.  This year, I'm trying to pay a lot of
attention to the listen-ability.  It always drives me mad when songs
on a mixtape or collection aren't the same volume, so specifically I'm
trying to make everything sound as even as possible - the kind of CD
where you don't even notice the dead air between the track changes.
And of course, a good mixtape is all about momentum.  I like when a
track sets the mood for the next, and when the next track can also
take you somewhere new while using the momentum of the last, if that
makes any sense.

After work, I caught the bus home and walked in the living room.
Marissa was behind the TV painting & watching Lord of the Rings.
Earlier that day, we decided to make plans for dinner with some
friends, so not having a toddler to watch nor dinner to cook, I just
flopped my bag on the ground and rolled onto the couch.  Marissa
joined me for a bit with a bag of chips and some leftover guac.  It's
been a while since I've returned from work and had absolutely nothing
to do, and I'm not going to lie to you - it felt kind of luxurious.
"Oh no," I yelled, glancing at my phone trying to look fake anxious -
"we only have an hour and a half to unwind before our next
commitment!"  As we caught up on unwatched YouTube videos, Ziggy fell
asleep in my lap.  Soon it did actually come time to meet our friends
for dinner, but before we left we did a video call with Rodney.  I'm
grateful he's old enough and aware enough to actually talk with us on
a video call.  In the brief time we spoke, he had plenty of stories
for us about shopping, seeing his cousins, and playing soccer with
Grandma.  I miss him, but I'm also glad he's having a good time.
Being away from home is an important skill to learn, I think.  And if
you don't start practicing early, it gets a lot harder to learn.

After our video call with Rodney, we put the dogs away, then jumped in
the car to meet our friends for dinner.  They were taking us to a
vegan & vegetarian restaurant in our neighborhood.  Sitting at a cozy
table in the back snacking on some vegan buffalo wings, we caught up
with their life, holiday plans, and other things.  For dinner, I had a
/macrobowl/ with a side of tempeh.  To be honest, I just ordered it
because I wanted a chance to say /macrobowl/ aloud, and our friends
encouraged me to get the tempeh so I could experience the crafty meat
substitution this place was famous for.  Indeed, if I was wearing a
blindfold, and perhaps a little drunk, I could have scarfed down the
whole meal thinking I was eating chicken wings and a burrito bowl with
little pieces of steak.

Even though Marissa and I eat plenty of meat, we're grateful for the
thriving meatless community in Madison.  Occasionally, we eat
vegetarian or vegan totally unprompted the way a tourist visits a
country just for the experience.  From the sidelines, I watch the
innovations of meatless eating with admiration, because a small piece
of me is convinced that I might live long enough to see the modern
carnivorous diet die off, and pretty soon we might wind up in a /Mad
Max: Fury Road/ situation where the only meat left to enjoy is canned
wet dog food or something.  In the event that ever happens, I'd like
to get ahead of it and figure out my vegetarian preferences.  Could
you picture Marissa and I roving the dessert in a rusted jeep with
spikes on the wheels?  I'd probably be snacking on a little bag of
tempeh in the front seat while Marissa vigilantly scanned the arid
desert for raiders.

After dinner, Marissa and I swung by Hy-Vee, then went home for the
night.  She painted a bit more, and for the most part I just hung
around on the couch.  I thought I'd have plenty of energy to work on
chores, but ironically, not having Rodney around has the opposite
effect on me.  I actually find it a lot harder to get stuff done.  So
most of yesterday evening, I sat on the couch with Zig Zig and watched
Lord of the Rings with Marissa while she painted.  A pretty mellow
evening.  I love crushing the chores midweek, but I guess it's not
often I get the chance to just chill with my dogs and watch a movie
I've already seen.

So that's what I got today.  We have another childless day today, but
this one should be busier.  Marissa and I have to finish preparing for
the gallery this weekend, along with doing laundry and doing final
touches on the house while we still can.  Our goal is to leave things
at maximum coziness for when we return home later this weekend.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Here's to lazy nights and
half work weeks!

*** 2019-12-05 Thursday new computers, pork chops with soup, and dumb jokes at home depot

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  You're
probably getting ready for the day, sitting in traffic, or maybe even
already sitting at your desk at work, but I'm lucky enough to be
beginning my long weekend.  After I finish this journal entry, we're
going to pack the car, I'm going to take a quick shower, then we're
going to make our way to Chicago in time more me to leave with my dad
to go to the tailgate.

I'm pretty excited.  Not only to I get to hang out today, drink some
beer, and maybe even eat some barbecue, but on top of it all, it's
game day.  And after tonight, we'll know if the Bears really have a
chance in the playoffs, or if all this momentum is just delusional
fumes from beating a really a really beatable team late in the season.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  I went into the office, and since
most people work from home on Wednesdays, it was a quiet day.  I had
plenty of time to finish my work for the week, and then even clean up
some of my local configs.  The other day, my work told me that anyone
with a laptop older than three years old can request an upgrade, and
mine is going on four.  So I'm starting to get things cleaned up so I
can turn it in and start afresh.  If anything, maybe be a little less
liberal with the stickers this time.  For some reason, it's totally
expected in my line of work that you plaster hundreds of stickers on
the front of your expensive Macbook, and even though that fad has
always puzzled me, I went along with it.  I haven't decided if I'm
going to do that again.  Yes, over time it looks tacky, but it does
make it easier to identify your laptop in a line-up.

Speaking of new laptops, Marissa's new chromebook just arrived in the
mail.  She went with a Lenovo Yogabook.  The screen is much bigger and
brighter in person.  Sitting on your lap, it almost feels a bit like a
slimmed down gaming laptop.  Yesterday she was telling me about how
good it felt to finally sit down with your own computer and catch up
on email and other online chores.  We had a shared dining room
computer in the meantime, but being able to multi-task on the couch is
a big win for her, and I can relate.

After I caught the bus home, Marissa and I went to Hy-Vee to pick up
dinner.  I had a loose idea for making potato and leak soup with a
side of pork chops, so we grabbed a stalk of leaks, a few potatoes,
and some pork.  These days, I'm trying to get into cooking without
recipes, and potato leak soup felt like a good place to start.  Like
all soups, it began with butter and onions, then chicken broth and
some other herbs, and finally the potatoes.  Once the potatoes
tenderized, I carefully dumped the soup into a blender.  I knew luck
was on my side for this recipe because it filled the blender exactly
to the top.  The broth, leaks, and tender potatoes came together in a
gentle slurry, and I dumped it back into my dutch oven for seasoning.

As the soup finished, I seasoned two thick pork chops and cooked them
in butter.  Pork, like poultry, normally makes me nervous.  I think I
have a mild case of undercooked-meat-a-phobia, but the other day I
watched a YouTube video that was pretty helpful and started to give me
peace of mind.  It turns out that the "safe temperature" for cooking
meat published by the FDA usually corresponds with the temperature you
need to kill all the bacteria in a substance /instantly/.  The video
host showed a line graph, temperature against time to sterilize, and
for chicken, all the bacteria was killed in just under a second
at 165.  "But at 130 or 140, you can still get there," he explained.
"It just might take a few extra minutes."

I think if I had to explain it, cooking meat to safe temperature is
not an active process.  It would be different if you could zap each
bacterium with a tiny microscope mounted machine gun, but it's more
like manipulating probability.  If you raise the temperature to the
point where 99 out of every 100 bacteria die every minute, then after
about 10 minutes you are either left with no bacteria or one very,
very lucky bacteria who is ready to party in your pork chop.  And at a
certain point, you can't live your life counting on being that lucky.

Dinner was a success.  I took the pork chops out of the herb butter at
140F and let them coast up to temperature under some tinfoil.  I
toasted some sliced bread for the top of the soup, and since I was
feeling very fancy, I garnished with some snipped leaks.  

Marissa and I ate dinner, then jumped in the car to run a quick errand
at home depot.  She had to buy some materials to make a sign for her
art gallery.  While grabbing the wood, she flagged down an employee to
help cut the two wood sheets to size.  "Our saw is broken," the
employee said.  "That thing breaks at least once a month," Marissa
grumbled under her breath to me.

We checked out at the front.  A straight faced employee reluctantly
scanned the items in our cart.  "Sorry we weren't able to cut this for
you," the lady murmured as she reached around the cart with the
scanner.  "It's OK," I replied.  "We're just going to use a sword."
The lady chortled, then after thinking about the joke for another
second, erupted in laughter.  "I have been trying to get on that
lady's good side for a while now," Marissa said as we were walking
back to the car.  "I can't believe it only took you one joke."

"And a stupid joke, at that." I added.

That's what I got today.  It's probably high time to pack the car.
I'm excited to see my family, I'm excited to see the Bears play, and
probably most of all, I'm excited to pick up my son from Grandma and
Grandpa's house.  I hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Bear
down!

*** 2019-12-06 Friday bears game

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Friday to everyone out there.  My dad and
I just checked out of our hotel, and now we're barreling down the
Stevenson expressway.  I'm blogging on the go, courtesy of this
journal entry's sponsor CradelePoint.  I'm obligated by my sponsor to
let you know that my Internet speed is 60 Mb/s down, 20 Mb/s up, which
is unironically competitive with my Internet at home.

Yesterday was a wonderful whirlwind of a day.  Maybe those aren't
choice words for a manly outing of football, beer, and barbecue pork,
but it was a wonderful time.  Marissa and I got into Geneva around
noon.  We were a little sad about dropping the dogs off, but we were
happy to spend some time setting up their bed and toys at the kennel
they'd be staying at while we were away.

We got into Geneva around noon, and my mom greeted us at the door,
signaling we had an opportunity to have some fun and sneak up on
Rodney, who was well occupied with a peanut butter and jelly sandwich
and a new Blippi episode.  We saw us from the corner of his eye, and
immediately smiled.  We spent some time hanging around the house,
cuddling with Rodney, and resting from the long car ride.  "I'm
finally off duty!" my mom laughed.

About an hour later, I said goodnight to Rodney and Marissa, then
jumped in the car with my dad.  We checked into a hotel, then made our
way over to the planetarium parking lot where we'd be helping out at a
tailgating event.  We helped set up some tables in between drinking
beer, then Pat the residential competitive BBQ expert borrowed me for
some smoked meat related activities.  Donning cloth and latex gloves
and wielding a meat knife, I helped Pat "bust up" five of the most
savory smoked pork bellies I've ever witnessed, then as he set out the
sides, I sliced some smoked sausages.  "Cut them at a 45 degree
angle," Pat instructed.  "For some reason they look prettier that
way."

After cutting the meat, I grabbed a plate and joined Philip, Jeremy,
and Kip by the fire.  They were chatting with a stranger who had
wandered over to heat up.  You'd think they would be talking about
football, but instead they were discussing the fire pit.  "These are
online," Kip explained.  "It's basically just a fire pit, but for some
reason it costs like $200".  

"Nah, it's special, it absorbs the smoke or something," our new friend
chimed in.  I shrugged my shoulders and turned to Phillip.  "I burn
stuff in my grill all the time, I don't feel like I have a big issue
with smoke," I said.

With about a half hour before kick-off, we started to wander over to
Soldier Field.  As night fell, it started to get colder, and I was
already regretting my decision to leave my winter coat behind.  "I
googled it," I said defending myself earlier.  "It's not even going to
get below freezing tonight - you all are going to be too warm."

Yesterday was my first time in Soldier field.  It was much bigger than
I expected.  It took us a while to find our seats, and we seemingly
wandered all over the stadium.  But at last, we settled in, and I was
able to take in the football game from some pretty prime seats right
behind the goal line.

Watching an NFL game in person was a notably different experience.
You can pay attention to any number of things going on that the TV
cameras miss - the blocking on the offensive line, the body language
on the bench.  And in moments that would normally be filled with
commentary and opinions - like a bad call - all you have is the
roaring and hissing of the angry crowd.  In the first half, the Bears
were flagged with a "block from behind" call, and as the replay played
on the jumbotron, the crowd erupted with anger seeing the safety
barely lay a hand on him.

Jeremy and I waited in line during the third quarter to go to the
bathroom.  On the way there, I bought a new Bears hat.  As I was
standing in line, two guys in Cowboys jerseys got into a confrontation
right next to me.  "The Cowboys suck, the Bears suck, they both suck!"
he yelled inches from the other guy's face.  "This league belongs to
the Patriots - the Patriots are going to win every year!"  As he
yelled, surrounding fans shouldered and elbowed him out of the
bathroom.  "Shut up idiot! was faintly heard from one of the stalls.
As the angry fan yelled, the other Cowboys fan raised his hand and
announced, "on behalf of the Dallas Cowboys, I apologize for that
idiot."  All of us waiting to use a urinal chuckled.

While I was in the bathroom, Trubisky ran in the ball for a touchdown.
The replay played on the jumbotron.  I was content that for the first
time this season the Bears were beating a decent team by three touch
downs.  And they held it together for the rest of the game - in the
last few minutes of the fourth quarter, the stadium started to slowly
empty.  We stayed through the rest of the game, then made our way
outside the stadium and walked back to the hotel.  Still a bit hungry,
Jeremy and I continued on to pick up some white castle.  We brought
back twenty cheese sliders, but only made it through about four of
them while watching Robocop in the hotel room before we had to turn
in.

I had a great time at the game.  I'm grateful I had the chance to have
some great barbecue, see the Bears beat down the Cowboys at beautiful
Soldier Field, and bond with friends and family as a new football fan.
And to add to that, I have a new Bears hat and a set of Bears towels
that I can't wait to hang up in my kitchen by the sink.

Today, we're going to recoup at my parents place, then later head back
into the city to stay with Adam and Sam.  Tomorrow is Marissa's art
show, so more adventures in the city.

Hope you all have a wonderful Friday.  Bear down, and see you next
Sunday when we play the Packers!

*** 2019-12-07 Saturday packing, monster trucks, traffic, and chicago

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning I'm coming to you from Adam and
Sam's kitchen.  As I was rustling around trying to find a new set of
clothes, Rodney sat up and looked at me.  His eyes narrowed tiredly,
and he shifted to grab his puppy toy and went back to sleep.  So I
think it's safe to say I have another half hour or so before he feels
like getting out of bed.

Adam and Sam live in the middle of Logan Square Chicago, and they live
the perfect distance from the El where you can hear the train quietly
roar in the distance, but it doesn't shake the house.  I'm pretty sure
the train was responsible for lulling me into a deep, restful sleep.

And we needed our sleep!  Today is gallery day.  Later this morning
we're going to head over to the gallery with Sam and start setting up
for the show.  The plan is to keep Rodney occupied with his toys in
the corner, then take him for a walk around the neighborhood when he
gets antsy.  Who knows - we might even go grab a hot dog or
something - but /no/ ketchup!

Yesterday after getting home from the hotel with my dad, I hung around
the house and helped my mom feed all the kids lunch.  Marissa took a
well deserved break from kid duty while I sat on the couch with all
the kids.  It's such a joy watching them all interact with each
other.  Even at three, Rodney and Alice's relationship is special.  At
one point they got in a little skirmish over who was playing with a
plastic chip clip, and the fought as some kids do.  I intervened,
explaining to Rodney that he needs to share, and the way he said
"sorry Alice" was really remarkable.  I coerce at least a dozen
/sorry's/ out of him per day, and I'm used to the way they sound, but
the way he said "Sorry Alice - so sorry" was genuinely remorseful and
touching.

And Alice is a fascinating kid.  Even slightly younger than Rodney,
she has focus.  She meets your eyes when you talk to her, and she
thinks about what you're saying.  Not to single out Alice - Frankie is
no chopped liver - she too his hilarious and adorable.  Marissa tells
me that Sarah compares her to /eleven/ from Stranger Things in that
she is seemingly mystically clairvoyant and in tune with everything
around her, but can't talk, so she can only smile, grin, and furrow
her brow.

We repacked Rodney's stuff, then crammed our CRV with clothes, bags,
toys, filling in the empty space between the wrapped paintings and
frames.  Our car was hilariously - cartoonishly - packed with things.
"You guys need to get a minivan," laughed my mom as I closed the trunk
with one hand, propping up Rodney's mattress with the other.  I'm with
her there.

We started to make our way to Chicago, stopping off at Target to pick
out a toy.  He proudly returned with a green monster truck.  "We
almost went with two smaller ones, but in the end he wanted the single
big green one," recounted my wife.  Rodney excitedly reiterated the
same thing, using plenty of Rodney toddler filler words.

We picked up some coffee, a bagel, then hit the road again.  As we
approached the city, majestic Sears tower piercing high over the
skyline, traffic slowed to a crawl - which I didn't mind at all.
Driving downtown is a lot easier when nobody makes any sudden moves.
And to add to that, it had been a while since our family was all in
the same place.  Sitting in traffic on the highway sipping hot coffee,
Rodney fiddling with a new toy in the back seat, it's like we were in
our own cozy little bedroom inching forward on the highway.

We made it into the city, carefully navigating to Adam and Sam's
place.  Rodney eventually dozed off, briefly winking awake at the
sounds of car horns and trains whizzing by over our heads.  At last,
we pulled over on his street.  Adam cheerily met us on the curb,
waiting to park our car in his garage.

Adam and Sam led us into their house, warning us about the stairs.
They too have an old house, and being fellow members of the 100 year
old house club I felt solidarity in their uneven floors, tricky
stairs, and low ceiling edges that have already claimed a piece of my
forehead.

We dumped our stuff in their guest bedroom.  Rodney sprawled his toys
on the table, creating a little nest of monster trucks, dump trucks,
and race cares.  I was worried at how he'd take the realization that
we're spending one more night away from his house, but he really took
to it.  I like to think he's kind of like me, and finds the city
energizing, but he was probably just happy to be out of the car and
playing with some new toys.  Ginny, their big friendly hounded,
bounced from lap to lap warmly welcoming us with big glorious puppy
kisses.

We hung around the house for a few hours chatting and catching up.
College friends have a funny way of bringing out your college
personality - at some point while we were sipping beers and hanging
around I suddenly got the urge to skip class, play Halo, and go grab a
Burrito.

"Rodney hungry," Rodney interrupted.  That was our segue into dinner.
We locked up the house and walked a few blocks down to a thai place.
"This is one of those sharing places," Adam said.  "In that case, I
leave it all up to these people!"  I proudly announced to the waiter.
It's a real treat to just let go and let somebody else order dinner
for you.  They brought out pad thai, shrimp, and hot fried rice that
was ballooning out of a halved pineapple.  We toasted our mai tai's,
my pregnant wife with her diet coke and Rodney with his pineapple
juice - which I imagine was still a pretty exotic choice for him.  I'm
glad Rodney got to dine out of his comfort zone as well.

Well, now approaching the end of this journal entry, I'm feeling fed,
rested, grateful, and ready to work.  But I can't help think about our
lovely little house in Madison, and our puppies patiently waiting for
us to return at the kennel (don't worry - they're doing just fine.  We
paid for the luxury package).  And I'm smiling knowing that this time
tomorrow, we'll all be sitting together in the living room home at
last.

This has been a wonderful weekend.  Seeing the Bears beat the Cowboys
at Soldier field, watching Rodney bond with his cousins, and catching
up with friends - my cup runneth over.

Alrighty - it's probably time to wake up the rest of my family.  Hope
you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-12-08 Sunday chicago pop-up gallery

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  We're having a late start this morning.  Even
though we've only been away from the house for three days, it feels
like longer.  I suppose Rodney has been away for a week, so he's the
most deserving of a relaxing day.  Today, there couldn't be any less
on the agenda.  We're sitting around the breakfast table enjoying a
Dutch baby and Marissa and I are enjoying the maiden voyage of our new
Dutch coffee maker.  I had full confidence in the new coffee machine -
so much so that I slipped our old Black and Dekker coffee machine into
the garbage before I even took the new one out of the box.  And my
confidence was not misplaced.  This coffee tastes like it was crafted
in the most hipster of coffee shops, and I love how futuristic it
looks on our coffee bar.

Yesterday was a long, fulfilling day.  After slowly emerging from bed,
Sam whipped us up some pancakes, eggs, bacon and sausage.  Adam was
already at work.  "He gets up around five," Sam explained.  "And it's
still a long day for him, he usually finishes around three or four."
After finishing up breakfast and getting in some last sips of coffee,
Marissa, Rodney, and I packed our stuff and prepared to go to the
gallery.  With Sam in the front seat and Marissa squeezed in the back
seat behind one of her paintings, we carefully navigated the tight
city streets, winding crowded intersections, turning into a small
alley, and finally delicately turning into our reserved parking spot.
The gallery spot was beautiful - wide, clean floors and walls, a high
ceiling, big beautiful glass doors that opened up to the street, and
they even had a ping-pong table in the back.  Rodney grabbed a ball
and paddle and got to fiddling while Marissa, Sam, and I unpacked the
car.  In a matter of minutes, we were set up and ready to open the
doors.

I was proud of Marissa.  She's done galleries like this before, but
something about this Logan Square venue she rented really felt like a
store front.  Seeing Marissa answer questions and chat with curious
locals made the fantasy of someday owning a storefront seem more
palpable and real.  

And the gallery was popular.  With only a hand made wooden sign that
said "Astuary Art - open gallery" to guide them, people started to
wander in immediately.

As Marissa and Sam held down the storefront, Rodney and I played
ping-pong in the back room.  We went for a walk to pick up some
coffee, then later on went on another excursion with Sam to pick up
lunch.  We chose a taco place, lured in by the smell of grilled
chicken, fresh salsa, and carne asada.  As Rodney and I shared a steak
burrito in the back room by the ping-pong table, Marissa poked her
head in to silently mime a fist pump, celebrating another sale.

After lunch, Rodney and I went for another walk around the
neighborhood.  He was quiet, and even insisted on walking about twenty
feet behind me with his hands in his pockets.  After pressing him a
bit, it seemed like he was OK, but just wanted some alone time.  And
that's understandable.  He had been away from his house since getting
picked up by Grandma last Sunday, and has had a busy week playing with
his cousins, going to the museum, spending the night at Uncle Adam &
Auntie Sam's place, and now helping out at the gallery.

As a side note, Rodney has the hardest time saying "Uncle Adam."  Each
time he tried to get Uncle Adam's attention, he accidentally said
"Uncle Alex", or even "Uncle /Ass/" on occasion, which Sam was a fan
of.  The /d/ sound is hard, isn't it?

But there we were, slowly and pensively wandering around the Logan
Square neighborhood, and while Rodney was trudging along with his
hands in his pockets, he still stopped to ask to pet someone's dog,
ask a stranger about riding the bus, and of course wish /happy
holidays/ to even the most surly of city slickers that passed by.  I
even took the opportunity to snap a few dramatic band pics of Rodney.
I think he'll thank me for that later in life.  Wandering around the
city with his hood up, he looked undeniably cool, even for a three
year old.

Finally, it came time to close the gallery doors.  We packed the car,
then swung by the house to grab the rest of our things and bid a
farewell to Ginny - Adam and Sam's dog.  She frolicked with Rodney in
the living room as I inched my way down the winding, crooked city
steps.  We waved to Sam as we turned on a street and left the
neighborhood.  I could see Ginny happily bouncing in the rear view
mirror.  Ginny the dog left an impression on me.  She's the kind of
dog that is so happy to be alive, it's almost a living, breathing
challenge to attack your own life with the same joy and ferocity.

Rodney fell asleep before I even got on the highway, the lurching of
Chicago traffic lulling him to sleep like a slow boat.  Marissa and I
chatted about the weekend and gallery for a bit before she too finally
succumbed to a car nap.  "Do you want me to put on a podcast for you?"
asked Marissa, breaking a long, haggard yawn.  "Nah, I don't mind just
sitting here."

It's been a long, rewarding, fulfilling weekend, but we're happy to be
home.  At three today, we are going to pick up our dogs, and the rest
of our Sunday schedule has been emptied in the interest of staying in
our pajamas, watching Christmas movies around our tree, and soaking up
family time before another work week.  Later today, I'm going to sneak
out to the grocery store.  Tonight, I'm making pork and cabbage soup -
which will hopefully bring us back from the teetering edge of
exhaustion induced soar throats and sniffles we're all feeling.

To Marissa's fans in Chicago, thanks for coming out and supporting us.
Galleries are always scary.  It takes a lot of faith to pile every
painting you have in the car and drive it all to a new city.  There's
always a danger that we picked the wrong spot, or picked the wrong
weekend, which is why we're grateful for the love and support.  "This
place was awesome," Marissa said while packing up.  "We have to do
Chicago again."

*** 2019-12-09 Monday analytics, turkey sandwhiches, cyan pepper, and recording music

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling good this morning.  Today
it's already drizzling a bit.  The street is glistening with rain from
last night, but it's somehow still so chilly it feels like it could
snow at any second.  In other words, it's prime hoodie weather.  This
morning, I'm wearing my unofficial/official winter work outfit
comprised of my favorite black hoodie and my favorite black
sweatpants.  These pants are great because with a little bit of work,
you can create an illusion with the rest of the outfit that they're
anything but sweatpants.  But I know the truth - that I just get away
with wearing sweatpants all day.  So coziness is at an all time high.

It feels nice to begin another week of work.  We're entering into what
will probably be the longest stint of continuous, regular work hours
for me this holiday season.  I have two weeks, and one of those weeks
I'm on ticket duty.  Ticket duty always puts me in a working mood, so
I'm hoping that spills over into my personal life and gives me some
much needed vigor in catching up on Christmas shopping.  Who do I have
to buy presents for?  That's a good question.  My wife handles all the
actual presents, so I'm mainly talking about the secret santas in my
life.  But I take secret santa very seriously - whether it's a
complete stranger on the Internet or a friend from college.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  In the morning, Marissa added
my journal entry about the gallery, and I got a pretty remarkable and
exciting spike in traffic, so that was fun.  I try to respect my
wife's online identity and give her space with it, but needless to
say, I appreciate and will gladly accept the ol' Astuary Art bump any
time she's handing it out.  

So all morning, taking breaks to glance at the analytics, I cooked
breakfast and finished tidying up the house.  Around lunch time, I
took Rodney to the grocery store.  Being away from our house for so
long this weekend, are fridge was looking a little scarce, and that
wouldn't do for the upcoming week.  We picked up supplies to make
dinner, along with some good ol' fashioned turkey sandwich
ingredients.

After we got home, I got to making lunch.  Rodney considered helping
me in the kitchen, but then retracted his offer, deciding he was too
tired an needed some time to recharge on the couch.  I happily
obliged - his apologetic and conscientious attitude was pretty cute.
In his own words, he said "[gibberish] uh, Dada - Rodney uh watch
Blippi I sorry."

"NoooO prawwwblim," I said, doing my best to translate the sentiment
in his own words.

We ate turkey sandwiches and watched Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer.
I'm embarrassed to say that was yet another childhood classic I missed
out on, and seeing it yesterday was my absolute first time watching
the movie.  I had assumed it was all (/spoiler alert/) about how
Rudolph bears the burden of a silly red glowing nose then finds out
how useful it is when Santa has to navigate a snowstorm, but I also
assumed that they don't go into more detail than what's provided in
the song.  The side plots of him joining Reindeer school, finding a
reindeer school sweet heart, getting bullied - not to mention the elf
that wants to be a dentist.  That was all new and strange to me on the
first watch.

Rodney went down for a nap, as did I.  I had a beer with lunch, not to
mention a sandwich full of tryptophan.  So slithering into my side of
the bed upstairs, it was no surprise that I passed out for two hours,
taking one of those deep space, floating-at-the-bottom-of-the-ocean
naps.  Peak relaxation.

Later in the afternoon, I emerged and waddled downstairs to start
dinner.  I got to slicing vegetables for our soup, and once I got the
carrots, onions, leaks, pork, and just a whole heck done of sliced,
blanched cabbage on the pot, I once again tidied the kitchen up.
Soups are great because all the work happens at the beginning, then
you basically have an extra hour to kill.  After cleaning up, I used
the rest of the time to experiment with my broiler.  On cabbage and
pork soup, I usually toast some sliced bread in the oven, with maybe a
layer of gruyere and some cracked pepper.  And thinking that might
come out looking even better if I got the cheese to bubble and crust a
bit, I went on an oven adventure.  The broiler was easy to turn on -
just a button that says "broil" right beside the one I usually press
to bake things.  A small blue flame bled from the top of the oven.  I
cautiously extended my hand below it - it felt hot, and perhaps even
hot enough to bubble some cheese.  I slipped the slices of bread in
the oven and wandered into the living room to check on Rodney.

Rodney's sniffles were slowly developing into a cold (last night he
actually got a bit of a fever), but he seemed content just zoning out
in front of the TV.  I cuddled with him for a few minutes, then
smelling burnt cheese, I sprung up and checked on my broiler
experiment.

Burnt.  /Damn/.  But only slightly burnt.  Really, the piece of bread
in the middle was the only one that didn't make it out alive, but the
others looked pretty appetizing.  So the take-away from this
experiment was that I have a working broiler, and that could make
things interesting in the future.

I finished seasoning the soup with salt, pepper, and cyan.  I decied
that being a watery, bland soup, I could get away with a lot of cyan
pepper.  The goal was to make the soup get your nose to run without
tasting spicy, and it worked out pretty well.  Cyan pepper is an
unsung hero of the kitchen.  I usually add a bit to everything
ironically, like Chef John does, but in his live stream video he got
to rambling about how he has a theory that a touch of cyan pepper can
open up the taste buds on parts of your tongue that are normally
close, and I think he's on to something.  I think a bit of it in soup
can activate just enough of the spicy food response to get the blood
flowing around the mouth and nose and allow you to smell more.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed.  Marissa had some painting to do,
and I started a load of dishes and crashed on the couch with Ziggy.  I
missed my dogs, and I'm so glad they're home.  We watched some YouTube
videos, then finally after about an hour I emerged to half-ass some
evening chores.  I put the kitchen away, took the garbage out, then
checked on Marissa.  She was wrapping up a time lapse, so I used the
rest of the time to record some music for the video I'll probably be
editing today.  I used to use actual songs, but after taking the time
to actually read Instagram's terms of conditions that are pertinent to
using music in videos, I've concluded that - in the parlance of our
time - /they have no chill/.  Virtually, you can't and shouldn't use
any actual music in your videos.  Isn't that sad?  Think about how
much cooler Instagram would be if you could use music that people
actually like, instead of that safe & poppy royalty free crap that you
have to play instead.  So in the interest of not trolling soundcloud
for the afformentioned crap, we're going the acoustic guitar noodling
route.  It was fun recording music, and even in the half hour I spent
fiddling with Audacity, I discovered several more features that I'm
pretty excited about.  What I was anticipating being kind of a rough
recording actually came out sounding decent - just as decent as
anything I've made in Garageband.  And as we all know, every time you
find a free software replacement for something made by Apple, an angel
gets its wings.

That's what I got today.  In three minutes, I'll be on a bus, and my
on-call shift will start, so set phasers to kill and phone volume to
max.  Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-12-10 Tuesday sick days, refunds, homemade marinara, and video editing

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all staying warm out there.
According to weather.com, it's going to be pretty cold today, so if
that's true for you, make sure you bundle up.  This morning, I've got
a nice hot cup of coffee on the table, and the rest of my family is
comfortably sleeping upstairs.

I'm glad that Rodney finally got some sleep.  Yesterday when I got
home from work, he woke up from his nap looking pretty terrible.
Marissa said that all he had for lunch was some water and a couple of
paw patrol fruit snacks.  His fever spiked a few more times in the
evening.  Poor guy.

Lucky for him, he doesn't have any plans anyway.  Being sick sucks,
but remember that dreadful feeling of having to catch up on homework
when you took a sick day in school?  That was always the worst.
Somehow you'd end up doing twice the amount of work you normally do,
and to ensure you're not absolutely buried in homework the next day,
of course you have to get a jump on it when you're still feeling sick,
but well enough to work on something.  I'm happy that Rodney had
nothing to worry about.  Last night, after politely excusing himself
from dinner, we let him settle in on the couch under a blanket and
zone out to some Blippi.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I got lots of work done.  Contrary
to what I was thinking yesterday morning in my sleepy Monday delirium,
I am not on ticket duty, so I have a whole extra week before I need to
turn on that part of my brain.  And after ticket duty, I have a whole
week off for Christmas.  That worked out pretty well.  Working extra
hard, then not working at all is an great pairing, isn't it?

I spent most of the day coding, taking breaks to catch up on emails
and clean up some stuff on my laptop.  I'm still on the fence about
asking IT for a new laptop.  Every time it starts acting a little
wonky, a simple reboot seems to set things straight again, and waiting
for my computer to reboot is a great time to get a cup of coffee.

I'm pretty sure there is something ingrained in my head that keeps me
from returns, refunds, and exchanges.  I'll almost always instead find
work-arounds, or convince myself that I didn't really need the thing
to begin with.  One of the silliest examples of this trait is when I
bought a skateboarding helmet from target about three years ago.  I
just needed a helmet so I could ride to work in the mornings, so while
at Target, I snagged a pretty simple black adult helmet.  Shortly
after buying it and walking back to the car, I realized that the
buckle was missing.  A normal person would have turned around and
gotten a refund, right?  Not me.  Instead, I tied a shoe lace between
the straps where the buckle should have been.  "This is fine," I
thought.  "I can just untie the shoelace when I want to take the
buckle off."  I must have used that helmet for half a year.  In an
effort to save me from embarrassment, my wife even retied the
shoelace, and trimmed the excess so it wouldn't hang down off my chin
like a strange feathery goatee.  So there's the helmet story - a great
example of my weird tendency to refuse giving up on something I own,
no matter how silly the workaround.  And it's probably the reason I've
convinced myself my four year old work laptop is just fine.

After work, leaving Rod to get some much needed sleep, I snuck away to
Hy-Vee by myself to pick up spaghetti, some pork, and materials to
make pasta sauce.  But while standing in the aisle from which I
normally buy marinara, I had a strange impulse to make it from
scratch.  Maybe I was feeling brave, or more likely I no longer wanted
to choose between cheap premade marinara and the expensive /yuppie/
marinara from the authentic food aisle at Hy-Vee.  So instead, I
grabbed a can of peeled tomatoes and an extra head of garlic.

I made the marinara a lot like my pizza sauce.  Just some grated
garlic, olive oil, and a bunch of oregano.  In hindsight, I forgot to
add the tomato paste - that probably would have made it even better.
From there, I blended the can of tomatoes and added them to the
mixture, and let it all gently simmer for about twenty minutes.  After
a pad of butter, you'd think it was a can of premade marinara after
all.  And the cheapness cortex of my brain lit up with endorfins at
the prospect of saving four dollars.

Continuing the theme of dinner experimentation, I also gave my broiler
another whirl, this time with some pork, lemon & cheese meatballs.  It
worked beautifully, searing the meat and giving them a nice crispy
edge, but it would have been even better if I used tinfoil instead of
my silicon mat.  It also would have saved me a lot of time, as I had
to scrub the meatball grease out of it after dinner.

Marissa and I ate pasta while Rod relaxed on the couch.  We tried to
get him to eat some plain noodles with cheese, but he wasn't feeling
it.  We took him upstairs to give him a bath, which made him feel a
lot better.  Shortly after, we put Rodney to bed.

For the rest of the night, my plan was to catch up on chores, then
edit a video for Marissa.  She was even kind enough to take out the
garbage and wipe down the table so I'd have more time in the video
lab.  This was the first footage taken with her new camera, and we
were both eager to see the results.  However, I didn't anticipate how
the larger raw videos would slow down the editing process.  Usually, I
speed up the videos, then use the mouse-over scrubbing to trim off the
dead footage before adding music, but the videos were so large, rich,
and detailed, that my software choked trying to preview the changes
and decode everything on the fly.  I think what I'll have to do
instead is run the raw footage through a script that will
programatically speed them up to make them more tenable in the editor.

So that's what I got today.  It's Tuesday, I've got leftover pasta and
three meatballs packed in my backpack, and I'm ready to brave the cold
and trot over to the bus stop.  Wherever you are, and whatever you're
up to today, I hope you have a wonderful day today.

*** 2019-12-11 Wednesday confrontation and cabbage
    
Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  This morning,
I'm working from home, but I'm trying to get an early jump on the day
and stick to the regular schedule of things.

Rod is finally starting to feel better.  His fever went away, and he
felt good enough to run errands with mom, and later go to Hy-Vee with
me.  He still has a pretty nasty cough, but through his exasperated,
phlegmmy voice he's still just as talkative as ever.  So for anyone
that wished him a speedy recovery, know that he's turning a corner and
he's back to his rigorous daily routine of watching TV, chasing the
dogs around, and occasionally peeing in the potty.  He's still not
feeling well enough to help out in the kitchen.  Since he was feeling
better yesterday, I offered to make dinner with him, but I got his
classic /no daase/ as he stared out the car window.  Then he spotted
the moon outside, so we were already on to the next thing.

Yesterday was a pretty good day, although I didn't get as much done as
I wanted to.  It was one of those days that kind of slipped away, lost
to reading slack messages and email and attending meetings.  I had a
pretty good one-on-one with my boss - I shared that I have a problem
with confrontation.  I'm not even talking about serious
confrontations - getting rear ended in traffic, or having to go tell
someone to get off your lawn.  I seem to have a problem with small
confrontations - the kind where it just seems easier to nod and go
along with things instead of ruffling feathers.

He recommended a book to me, and I ended up ordering it.  Those little
book previews in Amazon are pretty effective, aren't they?  I Must
have read through half the first chapter before I even forgot what I
was doing.  The book is by some Harvard people who studied how
difficult conversations take place, and in the first chapter, it
described how alongside all difficult conversations, there is a
hidden, personal conversation people have with themselves.  Both
parties are judging everything through a lens, using it to measure
whether or not they seem competent, tough, lovable, and overall living
up to their own ideals.

For instance, two young parents who are arguing about which parenting
book to follow are probably not actually looking for alternative
suggestions - it's more likely about who is a better, savvier parent.
Two college students arguing about politics are probably just trying
to prove to themselves that they don't live in a bubble, and that they
know what's going on in the world.

The idea makes me feel kind of dirty.  I'm not sure how I feel about
talking to people and, rather than taking what they're saying at face
value, you play a little game where you try to imagine /why/ they are
saying what they're saying.  I certainly don't try to have secret
conversations in my head.  I'm one of those people that says whatever
pops into their head.  But it struck a chord with me, and the examples
in the book sounded a lot like some puzzling confrontations I've had
in the past, so I bought the book.  I'm hoping it's one of those
little thin paperback books that I can blow through in one wild
weekend of binge reading.

After kind of a heavy, thoughtful afternoon, I ended the day on a high
note.  Somebody from our San Francisco office reached out to me for
some python help, and before our late afternoon meeting I tried to be
intentional about putting some coherent thoughts together.  She was
starting out on a new project where she was asked to bring a big,
multi contributor project under better testing and logging, so we
spent the half hour looking through the code and talking about some
strategies for refactoring it - and for the uninitiated, /refactor/ is
a silly industry pseudo-word that just means /change the code without
changing what it does/.  So it was a pretty fun, stimulating
conversation about a topic I enjoy.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee.  He had practically skipped all his
meals the day before, so I wanted to put a lot of vegetables and
potatoes on his plate that evening.  We picked up potatoes, ground
beef, kale, and red cabbage.  Once at home, Rod crashed on the couch
to watch some TV.  I was kind of bummed he didn't want to help in the
kitchen, but he still looks the kind of sick where you wake up at 80%,
then before dinner feel about 50%, so I can relate.

I quartered and boiled the potatoes with chopped kale, mixed the
ground beef with an egg, bread crumbs, and spices, then rolled the
meat in puff pastry.  They may have been my best saucijzenbroodjes
ever.  I feel like I'm starting to really hit a good stride in the
kitchen.  Lately it feels like I'm getting faster, and I can either
use the extra time to put food on the table earlier, or just enjoy
spending extra time on something to get it right.  As the broodjes
finished in the oven, I cut some cabbage and cooked it in my biggest
pan in some hot oil, and taking a tip from Rachel Ray, I jazzed it up
with some mustard seeds.

If you haven't cooked red cabbage, I would give it a try.  It looks
really cool.  The dark purple brightens up, and it even leaves this
regal sheen in the pan.  Later that night as I cleaned the pan in the
sink, the water ran purple, then deep blue like squid ink.

So that's what I got today.  Today, I'm working from home, and Marissa
is taking the dogs to class.  The Rod man is probably going to sleep
in, and I'm hoping he does, and finally beats that dang cough & cold.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading, and
hey - Happy Wednesday!

*** 2019-12-12 Thursday boots, pizza, drowning nightmares, and eggnog addiction

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're staying warm today.  I'm excited
that it's a cold day today - yesterday my new pair of winter boots
arrived in the mail.  I ordered them months ago, falling into the trap
of ordering something on Amazon and not realizing the actual date it's
expected to arrive is months in the future.  Has that ever happened to
you?  Marissa and I have even turned the boots into a joke.  "I love
winter boots," we say.  "Hope to be a part of them someday."  Like a
lot of our jokes, it's tied to a deep /Office/ reference.  So today,
I'm attacking this Thursday, and looking forward to having warm feet.
I love my black skate shoes, but they don't do well in the winter.  At
a certain point once they wear down, I might as well be wearing
slippers.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  The theme of "dealing with
confrontation" continued into talks with my boss and team, and it led
to a really fruitful discussion.  I also learned that I have a
tendency to apologize for disagreeing with people, which is definitely
not how I saw myself, but since the thought entered my mind, more and
more difficult conversations I've had in the past bubble up through my
memory and fit the pattern.

In the late morning, I shut my laptop and the three of us took a
little drive to the new Ian's pizza that opened up in our
neighborhood.  We're tentatively trying that out as a new regular
lunch spot.  They have good beer, but we're still kind of all on the
fence about the pizza.  "They have no middle ground," Marissa
complained.  "They're either serving the most regular pizza possible,
or something crazy and risky, like a pizza covered in Fritos."  She
gestured toward my order.  I had taken a risk on the chili cheese
Frito pizza.  I ate the end and the crust, but decided to call a truce
on the big middle portion of the slice.

I'd have to agree with her.  They have a lot of ambitious specialty
pizzas, and undeniably some of those are real hits - the mac & cheese
quesadilla pizza is particularly noteworthy - but most of the time,
their specialty pizzas are just slightly worse than the sum of its
parts.  I'm reminded of the last time we went to Ian's as a family,
and I took a gamble on the thanksgiving pizza, which carried dark
turkey meat, stuffing, and even some cranberry - slightly worse than
the sum of its parts.

We head back home, and Rodney went down for a nap.  I worked from the
couch for the rest of the day.  At quitting time, I shut my laptop,
and joined Marissa on the couch.  Ziggy jumped up in my lap, and I
nuzzled her into my chest.  We nodded off into a deep nap.  About a
half hour later, I woke up from a terrible dream: I was scuba diving,
and as I was trying to surface for air I realized I was surfacing too
quickly and felt a tremendous pressure on my chest, which was actually
just Ziggy, who had adjusted and was sleeping squarely on top of me.

"I was scared, because I remembered that when you surface from a deep
dive, you have to do it slowly at an incline while exhaling or
something," I later described to Marissa.  "Your dreams are too
technical," she laughed.  It's true - seems like even my daytime
nightmares are always way too heavy on the details.

For dinner, we raided our own fridge for leftovers - garlic bread,
potatoes, cheese, and leftover saucijzenbroodjes.  We discovered last
night that they go really well with hot sauce.  Leftover night is fun,
and gratifying.  It's like a victory lap for all the meals you've had
that week, and it feels good taking care of dinner without spending
any money or leaving the house.  Not to mention it creates a lot of
extra space in your fridge, and it feels good to use food.

We put Rodney to bed, then I started on my chores while Marissa worked
on hers, stopping to chat between tasks.  While cleaning the fridge, I
saw we had barely a splash of grapefruit juice left, so wanting to
surprise Marissa with a snack, I tried to whip up some kind of
grapefruit caramel.  But no matter how much sugar or butter I added,
the dark & twisted slurry just got darker and stranger, and when I
finally called it and brought the bubbling, spurting caramel to the
sink to cool it off with hot water, it congealed to an angry, greasy
monkey fist.  The way it coalesced in the sink reminded me of the
alien black suit from Spider-Man.  I put the hot dark mess in a bowl
and walked it up to Marissa for her amusement.

Later, as we continued to tidy up together, Marissa walked over with a
near empty sleeve of holiday-themed Starburst jelly beans.  "Don't let
me eat these again, I'm sick," she said slipping them into the
garbage.  "Are you basically addicted, and then you eat to much?"  I
asked.  She nodded, and I replied, "Yep - eggnog."  We bonded over our
vices.  I'm a recovering eggnog addict.  I can't even keep it in the
house anymore.  When you think of eggnog around the holidays, you
picture a cozy chair, some slippers, and a modest ounce of eggnog
poured into a glass taster with some ground nutmeg on top, right?  For
me, eggnog is just a shameful secret.  I swig it right out of the
bottle with the fridge door still open, and like Marissa with her
Starburst jelly beans, I drink too much at once, and I get sick.

We wrapped up our chores, then convened on the couch to advance a
little further in /The Usual Suspects/.  It's the kind of movie that
has tempted us into staying up late and seeing it all the way through.
Dense and nuanced, it's difficult to pick back up the next day, so
last night we had to practically rewind half of what we already saw to
catch up.  I saw the movie already, and I feel like I'm finally
piecing together the richer details of the plot for the first time on
my second watch.  But what a movie, right?

So that's what I got today.  Another week, another Thursday, and soon
another weekend.  Hope you all have a great day today - and stay warm
out there.

*** 2019-12-13 Friday sickness, breakfast, pair programming, and the usual suspects

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  I'm feeling
good this morning, and at this point - knock on wood - I feel like
I've survived whatever cold has been going around.  Not only was
Rodney afflicted, but a handful of my teammates at work too.  There
were occasions this week where my mouth felt dry, and I felt for sure
that I would wake up the next morning with that all too familiar
throat tickle that is the ominous harbinger of a soar throat.  But now
here we are Friday morning, still humming along.

I'm grateful that I didn't get sick.  Did you know I'm a real baby
about getting sick?  I'm not one of these people that can still get on
with their day.  If I get a soar throat, I pretty much need to close
up for the day and hide under a blanket for hours.  The other weird
thing about me is that I never seem to get sick on work days.  If it
happens, it's almost always Friday afternoon, just as I'm heading into
a weekend.  This was almost always the case with school, as if my
immune system was fighting on reserve power, and once it was quitting
time my antibodies punched out for the weekend and let the virus run
amuck for a while.

While we're on the subject, I hope everyone out there - especially
those who are sick - are feeling better, or at least taking the time
they need to heal and rest up.  These winters are just brutal, aren't
they?

So this morning, I'm sitting at the computer with a belly full of
coffee, and I'm taking a minute to reflect on why I never eat
breakfast.  My sister brought it up in our family online chat where I
post my daily journal entries.  "You always talk about dinner, but
what are you eating for breakfast?" she asked.  The disappointing
truth is that I'm a member of the shameful breakfast skippers club.
On weekdays, I break out my work lunch at eleven.  I like eating early
because it's easy to find a spot to sit and the kitchen at work is
much less busy.  But it's also probably because I'm hungry.

This morning, I've packed a little Tupperware container of yesterday's
leek & potato soup.  I tied it in a Ziploc bag, and I guess that's a
reflection of my trust in my Tupperware.  I also stuffed a little
baggie of toasted, peppered croutons I made last night, with some
shredded mexican cheese.  Inspecting the bag this morning, it appears
some of the cheese melted around the croutons that were still warm,
but I have a feeling that after I dump the whole mess into a bowl of
soup at work, it won't matter.

So I'm a breakfast skipper, at least during the work week.  Don't get
me wrong - I'm not a breakfast hater.  On the weekends, we usually
sleep in a bit and I really go nuts with the pancakes, Dutch babies,
bacon, and sometimes potatoes.  Marissa and I sit around the dining
room table drinking coffee and digesting food until it's basically
lunch time.

When it comes to lunch, I'm either eating dinner leftovers from last
night, or eating somewhere special with my work team.  I almost never
make anything for dinner that doesn't leave enough leftovers for
everybody's lunch the next day, and it's pretty easy to do.  In fact,
it's probably a lot harder to bake exactly enough food for a single
dinner between two adults and one toddler.

So that's my eating story.  This morning, maybe to shake things up,
I'll grab a granola bar out of our little stash by the coffee bar and
eat it on the bus.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  I rolled into work, and despite a
meeting heavy day, I still kept on track and finished a lot of work.
After our last meeting of the day, I pair programmed with a teammate.
In pair programming, usually one person does all the coding and
testing - the "driver" - and the other person is kind of the
"spotter".  You help guide the problem solving, and you use your
laptop to help google things, and maybe test one-off scenarios for
them.

After work, I took the bus home, greeted Marissa, then slowly turned
on the lights in Rodney's room.  He was fast asleep, and though torn
between waking up and going to Hy-Vee with me or abstaining from
errands for more sleep, he summoned the willpower to climb out of bed
and join us downstairs.

Rodney was quiet at Hy-Vee.  Normally he likes to walk beside the
cart, and even trail behind me by about twenty feet (I think he enjoys
the independence).  But he wasn't feeling well, and just wanted to sit
in the cart.  I could imagine that right now he has the kind of soar
throat that feels like hell after breathing through his mouth for the
duration of an afternoon nap.

At home, Rodney crashed on the couch and I got to making soup, which
was a pretty easy task, since the night before while cleaning the
fridge I decided to slice all the vegetables ahead of time.  This time
around, I threw in a couple of carrots into the mix.  What surprised
me is that those carrots managed to turn the whole soup to a shade of
orange, which was unsettling at first, but later as we gathered around
the table to eat soup sprinkled with cheese, the orange color deceived
me into thinking there was more cheese than their actually was.  So
that was interesting.

And the toasted croutons were a hit.  I simply cubed up a loaf of
french bread and tossed the chunks with olive oil and some salt, then
I went a little crazy on the pepper.  I baked them on a sheet pan for
about fifteen minutes.  The crunchy, peppery croutons submerged in hot
creamy soup mentally brought me back to a time where we used to eat at
Champ's as a family after Sunday church.  On cold days, I would get
the soup, and it had all these croutons floating around, and when you
went to eat them, a long strand of melted cheddar would stretch from
your spoon to the surface.  So that's the effect I was trying to
achieve.

Marissa put Rodney to bed, and I finished up my Secret Santa present.
This year, I'm participating in the reddit Chicago Bears secret santa
exchange, which they call "Secret Ditka".  I got my match a cooler
back pack that was on his wishlist, and I threw in some squeaky cheese
curds and a long rambling letter.

After chores, Marissa and I finished watching /The Usual Suspects/.
We had been helping each other follow the action, and even though she
had lots of questions in the last ten minutes of the movie, I was
afraid to say anything.  The ending of /The Usual Suspects/ is so
good, I fear what punishment awaits in the afterlife for the crime of
spoiling the ending for somebody on their first watch.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you stay warm and healthy today.
Eat soup, watch movies, and only bother with breakfast if you have
time for it.

*** 2019-12-14 Saturday fire alarms, bubble gum dares, shakes, and christmas lights

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling good today.  Rodney and I
have been up for a little over an hour now, and it's been a slow ramp
up for both of us.  He's still getting over his cold, and I guess from
taking such a long nap yesterday he's up early, and was feeling
cranky.  But after a some milk and a couple episodes of Blippi - and a
couple cups of coffee for me - we're both getting there, and it's
starting to feel like a regular Saturday morning.

I'm pretty groggy from yesterday.  After putting Rodney to bed, I
crashed on the couch under a blanket with Ziggy close by.  The next
thing I remember was Marissa shaking me sometime around eleven, asking
me if I wanted a grapefruit.  I sat up, and we watched some TV while
we ate, before finally heading upstairs again around midnight.  It
felt great to get some extra sleep, but now all I want to do is keep
sleeping, so this morning I'm just trying to build some momentum and
have a productive day.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  There was a small shake-up at work
in the morning when some construction on another floor accidentally
set off the fire alarm.  My work hadn't sent any emails about a fire
drill, so after we all filed down the stairwell and out to the capitol
building lawn, my team stood around and postulated about what could
have triggered it.  "You know I heard on NPR that buildings are so
safe these days that the average firefighter only sees one actual fire
per year," said my teammate.  Standing around with my team, I noticed
that I absent-mindedly carried my coffee mug down the stairs and
outside with me, filled to the brim with warm coffee.  I'm so used to
carrying my Seinfeld mug with me wherever I go, it's hard to break the
habit even in an emergency evacuation.  But it was pretty chilly, and
it took at least ten minutes for the fire department to shut off the
tripped alarm, so I must have looked pretty smart to some people,
comfortably sipping hot coffee outside.

They gave us the all clear, and we all groaned knowing that we would
now have to now climb eight flights of stairs back up to our floor.
"I'm going to be an hour late to stand-up," I announced to my team.
"I'm going to wait for the elevator."  Eyes rolled.

After ascending the stairs, we stood around by our stand-up spot
catching our breath.  I started fiddling with a pack of Hubba Bubba
that I bought and contribute to our common gum & mints stash.  "You
should put the whole thing in your mouth," said my team lead.  The
others nodded in approval.  I shrugged, then slipped the whole roll of
Hubba Bubba in my mouth and started chewing.  "By the end of this
stand-up meeting," I said through gum & drool, "I'm gonna blow a
bubble just watch."

And I did blow a bubble - a tiny one.  Hubba Bubba is a pretty
terrible gum all around.  It's chalky, it loses it's flavor
immediately, and it falls apart in your mouth.  I don't know how I
ended up being the guy that does things just because people dare me
to, but I like the street cred.  I'm reminded of the time I ate a
whole wad of wasabi of somebody's plate during a team sushi lunch.  No
doubt, there has to be some middle child psychology at play.

The rest of the work day was pretty normal.  I worked through the
morning, then took a break around 11 to heat up my soup and eat it at
a spot at the 7th floor bar overlooking the capital.  I career
highlights of Brian Urlacher from my phone.  Brian Urlacher was a
scary guy, wasn't he?  It's terrifying how fast he could move for how
big he is.

As the work day concluded, we all met back at our section to pack our
desks.  Next week, they're moving us down to the sixth floor of the
building.  Just before heading home, we took a walk around where we'd
be sitting.  I think I came out pretty lucky in this desk move.  I
have a nice quiet corner seat overlooking the lake, and it feels much
closer to the ground, which is pretty cozy.

After getting home, I made a pizza, and we ate it at the table.  Rod
had just woken up from a monster nap, so he was groggy and a little
grumpy.  "You know," my wife spoke up.  "Rod and I had an idea today,
Dad."  Rodney stopped chewing and widened his eyes in anticipation.
"We wanted to know if we could go get a chocolate shake, then go check
out the Christmas lights on John Nolan," she continued.

"Chrimbiss Lights?!" Rodney exclaimed.

I paused and furrowed my brow, pretending to deliberate.  "Well... I
suppose so.  But we better leave now."

We all packed in the car, dogs included, then after stopping by
Portillo's for some late night shakes, we continued driving to the
John Nolan park.  As we crossed the lake, we could already see a big
cluster of colorful Christmas lights coming into view.  We inched the
car slowly through a giant lit tunnel, which started to flicker and
change colors.  There was a fighter jet, giant football helmet,
dancing Bucky the Badger, and a big bulldozer driven by Santa all made
up by colorful Christmas lights.  The last installation was a replica
of the Madison capitol.  It made me laugh, because the Christmas
lights version sort of just looked like a stubby summer sausage stuck
into some glowing blocks, and it looked even sillier because it stood
in front of the actual capitol building well visible from across the
lake.  We took at least three more laps around the Christmas lights,
then went home.

So that's what I got today.  Yesterday, after getting back, I
basically got right to recharging.  I spent the rest of the night
passed out on the couch under some blankets, and between you and me, I
plan on doing some more of that today.  After of course I clean up
from yesterday's pizza.

Hope you have a wonderful day, and a restful weekend.  Next week is
the last week before Christmas, so if you're like me and you'll be
doing a lot of last minute planning, gifting, and driving, I'd get as
much rest as possible this weekend.  Thanks for reading, and happy
Saturday!

*** 2019-12-15 Sunday boogers, superstition, reocurring fights, and broken laptops

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all feeling good today.  Today is
another agility day - Mom and the dogs left early this morning, and
it's just the Rodman and I.  I'm taking things pretty slow this
morning and letting Rodney get some extra sleep.  He's feeling much
better - it seems like his energy has back, and now we're just left
with occasional heavy coughing and, of course, lots of boogers.
Boogers are absolutely everywhere.  We're almost at teething levels of
booger production.  And while I will not spend any more time talking
about the levels of boogers we're dealing with here, just know it's a
lot of boogers.

Today is game day!  This morning I have the Chicago Bears on my mind.
We play the Packers at Lambeau field at noon today.  I'm pretty
nervous about the game.  Football has showed me that I'm more
superstitious than I thought.  Even though we're on a four game
winning streak, three of those games, I was either out and about at
the museum, in Minnesota for Thanksgiving, or at the actual game.  I
haven't watched a game from home in a while.  And my superstitious
brain is making me worried that if I watch the game, I'll somehow make
it harder for the Bears to win.  Also, being at the game where Mitch
and his offense finally started clicking, it doesn't yet seem real.
Ironically, I need to see him play that well on TV before I start
believing it's not a fluke.

I'm also pretty worried about the symmetry with last season. If I'm
not mistaken, last year when the Bears beat the Packers in Lambeau
field, it was the Packers who were just one game from playoff
contention elimination.  With the Bears on the brink of elimination
themselves, the situation this season seems similar and ominously
reversed.

At least it's an earlier game.  I like the noon games much better than
the evening ones.  I find it kind of difficult to focus on cooking
dinner during the Bears game.  But a noon game is usually wrapped up
around the time we put Rodney down for a nap.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I enjoyed getting an early start
yesterday.  Getting up around 8 gave me plenty of time to write, clean
the kitchen, and set Rodney up at the Breakfast table.  Later, as he
played with blocks, I played some Christmas music and did my first
bing reading session of the new Difficult conversations book.  Thus
far, it's a great book.  The only unfortunate part is that the
terminology in the book is undeniably /corporate/, almost a little
retro - like something reminiscent of an HR mandated training video
made in the 90s.  As I was trying to summarize what I learned to
Marissa later that evening, I struggled to pick words that didn't make
the concepts sound boring.

The case examples are also hilariously dated.  To illustrated "blame",
the book asked you to imagine that your secretary sent you to a
business presentation with the wrong briefcase.  Maybe it's just my
line of work, but I have never actually seen anyone carrying a
briefcase full of papers.

But overall the book is compelling, and I'm learning a lot.  And it's
already one of those books that I wish Marissa and I had when we first
got married.  On one hand, I'm proud that we've arrived at the same
conclusions preached by this book - rules like "intentions are
invisible, never assume them" and "blame inhibits problem solving" -
even if it took us a couple of fights to get there.  Looking back at
our marriage, the thing I'm most proud of is how much we studied our
own arguments.  It's tempting to argue, apologize, then sweep things
under the rug, but I think there is a lot to learn from fights, and
even if it was two in the morning and our voices were hoarse from
yelling, Marissa and I always took the time to make sure we both
understood what happened.

One of the concepts we tried to pioneer early in our marriage was a
"reoccurring fight".  We had a some fights that would crop up every
month or so, and though the subject matter would be different, our
defense mechanisms, habits, values, and diverging perspectives felt
the same.  It sort of reminded me of when I learned I could be trapped
into losing a game of tic-tac-toe after my first move.  If they go
center, and you take any non corner space, you've already lost the
game.  Some of our fights felt like a common chain reaction, and even
though there was no way to stop them once they started, they could be
avoided if you just anticipate the scenario that got you there in the
first place.

After spending the morning reading, I heated up some lunch for Rodney.
Afterwards, Rodney helped me sort some laundry, then "fix" a laptop.
Marissa's old computer stopped booting, and it had been sitting in my
closet waiting to be worked on.  The plan was to take out the hard
drive, stick it in a working computer, and wipe the drive so it could
be safely recycled.  Rodney sat at the table while I worked, and to
let him feel involved I set him up with some spare computer parts.
Marissa called us while we were working, and while the phone was on
speaker Rodney excitedly talked about how he was fixing her broken
laptop.  "That must be what he thinks you do everyday," Marissa joked
later that night.  I laughed, picturing a life where my job was just
to jam screwdrivers and spare parts into old, broken laptops.  Some
days while working, it certainly feels like that might as well be my
job.  The joke is a great metaphor for the imposter syndrome and
futility.

So that's what I got today.  Rodney is starting to wake up.  I can
hear his loud, phlegmmy barking up in his upstairs bedroom.  How lucky
for him to get a free week long cough added to his cold & fever at no
extra charge.  In a moment, I'll head upstairs, get him out of bed,
and get him ready for the day.  We're both wearing our Bears swag
today.  This year my Secret Ditka thoughtfully included a new kids
sized bears hat for Rodney.  It took some convincing to get him to
wear it, but my son has a real trust problem when it comes to new
hats.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Bear down, and have a
restful Sunday.

*** 2019-12-16 Monday the gauntlet, the bears game, oil disposal, and snack menus

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all staying warm out there.  This
morning there is a little bit of snow on the ground, and all at once I
realize how much some snow can affect your mood.  It has been so
dreary outside lately, and after spending a whole weekend in the
house, I'm looking forward to getting outside - even a short walk to
the bus stop across the street sounds like a welcomed change of pace
right now.

This weekend was pretty relaxing.  I certainly got my fill of hanging
out with Rod and Marissa, catching up on chores, reading, and
re-charging on the couch.  And this week of work is going to be busy.
Looking at our family calendar, it's evident we're squeezing pretty
much every evening this week, whether it's our family Christmas photo,
baking cookies, or finishing up Christmas presents before next week.
I'm also on ticket duty, and on top of that I have to finish a pretty
hefty standards document before this Friday.  "I basically have to
write like a six page paper by the end of this week," I griped to
Marissa as we were going to bed.

With the busyness of this week, then immediate relief of time-off next
week, I think I'm going to officially dub this week /the gauntlet/.
It's going to be a hectic one, but I think if I stay on track, divide
my time up well, and stay motivated, we'll be just fine.

Yesterday was a so-so day.  Obviously, the Bears losing to the Packers
soured things.  The funny part about last night's game was that even
though we technically lost by more points than we did when we played
the Packers in week 1, our performance was much less embarrassing than
it was in week 1.  We let up a lot of points at the beginning, and it
was clear our offense was trying to find a rhythm in the first half,
but I think our boys put up a pretty good fight.  "Risky Trubisky"
really showed up for this game.  If anything, last night Mitch
confirmed his place as our starter for next season.  His hustle was
undeniable, and I love how Mitch can keep plays alive.  He's also
freakishly accurate once he finds his focus.

In the end, Greenbay was just a better team this season.  I'm sure
they have their own problems, and between you and me I don't think
they're going to make it far into the playoffs, but they played the
best in our division.  At least the Bears kept it interesting -
keeping the score of this game within one touchdown and staying in
playoff contention through week fifteen.  I emerge this season a
proud, battered Bears fan with one season under my belt.  And there
are still more games to go, so at least we're not done watching
football.

After the game, Marissa got back with the dogs carrying a handful of
ribbons.  Both Ollie and Ziggy did really well this weekend.
Yesterday, Ollie had two qualifying runs, and Ziggy had her first
qualifying run in Open class.

After Marissa got home, I fried a batch of french fries, then made a
half dozen polish sausages in foil with onions.  The meal didn't turn
out the way I'd have liked it.  I had trouble cooking the sausages all
the way through - they stayed frozen, and I had to resort to the ol'
"chuck it in the microwave" method, which never makes for good meat.
On top of that, my hot dogs buns decided to fall apart, so I had to
abandon steaming the buns.  At least the fries were good.  At least
they were good, until I decided to warm them up in the oven, and they
got a little soggy.  So last night's dinner had some struggles, and
even though inside I wanted to hurl a spatula at the wall and spike a
plate on the ground, I kept my composure and resisted losing my
temper.

It was a terrible dinner, though.  If we're using 2019 Bears games as
a grading rubric, this meal was probably like when the Bears played
the Raiders in London.  Just a total breakdown of something that
should have been pretty easy.

After dinner, I cleaned the kitchen and caught up on chores.  Last
night, I came up with a pretty ingenious system to clean up oil.  Out
of the last seven things I've tried, this is probably the first method
I used that didn't spill a single drop.  I simply took a gallon Ziploc
bag and lined the inside of a tall Tupperware container.  I filled the
bag over the sink, and while the bag only held half the oil, I was
able to zip it up and use another to collect the rest.  When I
finished pouring the oil, I used paper towels to soak up the rest in
the pot, then I added the paper towels to the bag and zipped it shut.
And with that, I had successfully moved about a half gallon of canola
oil to the garbage without spilling a drop.  Here's to small
victories.

Marissa was napping on the couch as I cleaned.  As a joke, I decided
to craft a snack menu for when she woke up.  The menu for /Rissa's/
included classic favorites like "cheese curbs", "Rodney's cookie", and
"Bring Me Three Clementines".  That last one was a callback to a night
where Marissa's pregnancy was sending mixed cravings and she was
trying to decide on what to eat.  She turned to me and said "bring me
THREE clementines," and she really emphasized the /three/.  Her
uncertainty with /what/ to eat and her emphasis on /how much/ was
funny, and it gave us a good laugh.

So that's what I got today.  Now, I leave the comfort of my morning
blogging station and head out into the breach.  Welcome to the
gauntlet.  Five work days of ticket duty, technical standard writing,
and evening work.  Let's do this!  Happy Monday, everyone.  Let's go
hit this week!

*** 2019-12-17 Tuesday emotions, blame, rigatoni, and football

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  Before I
jumped in the shower, I checked the weather, and it's looks like it's
supposed to be another chilly day.  Hopefully we get some more snow on
the ground before heading into the holiday season.  The older I get, I
find it harder and harder to summon enthusiasm for the Christmas
spirit.  I love seeing family, getting time off work, and of course
getting gifts from people, but everything else about Christmas is on
thin ice with me.  This year, a little bit of snow on the ground could
help its case against me.  And now that I'm delving into dangerous
/humbug/ territory - not wanting to out myself as a staunch Christmas
hater, I had better change the subject.

I did some more reading in my Difficult Conversations book yesterday.
After cleaning up from diner, I rolled into bed and finished the
second of four sections.  I read about emotions, how they should
affect confrontations, and how we can better understand them.  I found
the conversation stimulating and enlightening.  Just between you and
me, reader, these Harvard nerds really know their stuff.  One of the
things the authors discussed was how the tendency to blame other
things for a problem is usually a clue that you are holding onto
unexpressed emotions.  This struck a chord with me, and it actually
caused me to get up and crack open my anger journal.  Luckily, I
haven't had a new entry in a number of weeks, with a close call being
the big microwaved frozen polish sausage scandal of last Sunday.
Blame was a common theme.  The word "blame" appeared at least once in
every entry.  The discovery caused me to stare into space, replaying
how I felt when I cut open one of the polish sausages last Sunday and
beheld the cold, pink center.  I wanted to blame the recipe video I
watched on YouTube.  I wanted to blame Marissa for buying the wrong
sausages.  I wanted to blame Rodney for distracting me by playing in
the sink pretending to help me cook.

Something else the book talked about was the skill of negotiating
with your feelings.  My emotions have always been a black and white
battlefield, but according to the book, your perception of a situation
is subjective, and if emotions arise from your perception, then they
would have to be subjective as well, right?  The authors used spotting
a shark as an example.  If you were swimming in the deep ocean and you
spotted a shark swimming towards you, you might feel scared and
anxious, and your emotions will take over and tell you to either hold
still or swim backwards as quickly as possible.

But if you were a trained marine biologist instead of a mere casual
swimmer, you might spot the shark and recognize it as a whale shark,
assuring yourself you are in no danger and the little guy is just
sniffing around for some krill or squid.  Suddenly your perception of
the situation changes and those emotions magically dissipate.

As we climb the entries of my anger journal, it appears I was already
starting to figure out how to negotiate with my emotions.  In these
entries, I challenge my need to blame things.  For example, when I
felt the need to blame Marissa for buying the wrong sausages, I
reminded myself that she was unsure about them, and upon showing them
to me after getting home from the store I said aloud "those will
work - I'll cut 'em in half so they can fit on a hot dog bun."  And if
she had really bought the wrong kind of sausages, wouldn't I have
recognized it then?  Or would I at least share the blame in signing
off on them as well?  Maybe I should have moved them from the freezer
to the fridge a little sooner.  So those are my reading reflections
thus far.  Next reading session goes into how difficult conversations
can impact your identity.

Sobering reflections aside, yesterday was a pretty great & easy day.
I had meetings most of the day, and I cut work early so we could go
take a family photo on Barb's farm.  So if we're still pretending this
week is the pre-holiday gauntlet, this must also be the smallest
gauntlet to have ever been thrown.  We drove to Barb's place, took
some photos outside in their yard, then head inside their dog training
facility to let the dogs burn off some energy.  Marissa talks often
about how fun it is to watch Ollie and Ziggy open the throttle in a
big area, and witnessing it first hand was a treat.  I love the way
dogs let their tongue flop out of their mouth to gain more speed, as
if it's a performance tradeoff.

I dozed off for about twenty minutes as Marissa drove back, and on the
way home, letting Rodney continue sleeping in the car, I ran into
Hy-Vee to pick up dinner.  I made pork rigatoni, which is really
starting to climb the ranks in terms of meals I enjoy cooking.  I render
the fat out of some pancietta, toss in lemon zest, sliced garlic,
tomato paste, and oregano, then dump in the sauce - remembering to
rince the bottle with a little bit of water.  Then I cook the sauce
down a bit to taste.  I reduce the heat, add some butter, then when
the pasta is barely cooked, I drain it, sneaking away some of the
pasta water for later.  I let the rigatoni sit in the sauce for a few
minutes, then add pasta water and grated parmesan, which turns into a
pretty seductive looking and smelling cheese sauce.  As a finishing
touch, I throw in a fist full of chopped parsley and let it sit for
just a few more minutes.  Chopped parsley in pasta might be one of my
favorite things in the universe.

After dinner, I had some chores to do, as well as some holiday related
stuff.  The last part of my gift from my Bears subreddit secret santa
arrived, so I had to snap a pic of all the gifts together and write a
quick Internet thank-you.  Along with a hat for Rodney, he bought me a
pair of sweatpants as well as a Bears themed tequila glass.  And
having just lost to the Packers last Sunday, there was an obvious joke
in the implied theme of cozy self-loathing and drinking.

Before I sign off, here's another observation.  Football makes it way
easier to talk to strangers.  Football is the great equalizer, and a
powerful white noise that can overcome any shyness or awkward
conversations.

That's what I got today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today, and
as always, thanks for reading.

*** 2019-12-18 Wednesday tiredness, restaurants, good moods, and baking hell day

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all doing well.  This morning,
I'm having a lot of trouble waking up.  Yesterday was a pretty
exhausting day.  I'm tired, and right now I would like nothing more
than to just shut my eyes and slump in this chair.  I would probably
sleep for an hour right here if I could.  I guess this is punishment
for my gloating yesterday morning about how easy this week has
been.  All things considered - (pause for a deep yawn) - this is
fair.  I'm thinking when I get into work today, it could be a
Starbucks morning.  Before I start this day, I'm going to test the
limits of how many shots of espresso Starbucks is legally allowed to
dispense to a single person.

This week, another foundation engineering team is visiting from San
Francisco, and we dedicated yesterday to work with them.  We had some
meetings in the morning, where we discussed some high level
architecture decisions.  It was a pretty stimulating conversation.

For lunch, we took the team out to the Old Fashioned, padding the walk
over and wait for food with the usual small talk about Madison,
Wisconsin, and what it's like to live here.  Our food took a long time
to make it out of the kitchen, and while I was tempted to launch into
my rant about mediocrity & restaurants in Madison, I did my best to
pump the breaks.  After lots of reflection, and armed with the new
ideas in my Difficult Conversations book, I'm starting to question
where that anger is coming from.

"Do I sound like an ass when I do my whole 'Madison restaurants'
rant?" I asked Marissa later that night.  Marissa sheepishly smiled.
"I don't know how to answer that," she said with as much grace and
tact as possible.  Hearing that, I felt some shame.  I don't like the
idea of being a complainer.  My hope for this critique of our city's
food scene was that is was more nuanced than "Alex complains about
restaurants," but I'm starting to worry that's all that's getting
through.  I think instead of trying to charge up the people around me
to share my anger in frequently waiting too long for bar food, it
might be time to lay down the sword and figure out where that anger is
coming from.

"Maybe don't talk to other people about it - you can talk about it
with me," Marissa clarified.  "I don't know if it works that way," I
said.  "If I talk about it with you, I'm just going to get excited
about it again and it's going to leak out," I responded.

Following lunch, we split up into two groups using a bit of people
from each team and did some problem workshops.  We set up some work
before the visiting team arrived to take advantage of being in the
same room as a team with which we normally only talk to remotely.  I
worked with Oleg and Julia on upgrading some kubernetes servers, and
everything pretty much went according to plan.

I took the bus home from work, and while walking up the driveway,
Rodney happily greeted me at the window, pressing his face up against
the glass.  Marissa was laughing at him sitting at the dining room
table.  Rodney opened the door and immediately took my hand and led me
into the house, as if I was a visiting friend.  "He's in a really good
mood today," Marissa said.  I could imagine that after a week and a
half of fevers, a runny nose, and terrible sleep, Rodney was due for a
good day.  It was clear that his energy was back, and he was elated to
have a regular day.  "Do you want to go to the grocery store?" I asked
kneeling down to meet his eyes.  "Leeeet's DO IT," Rodney said pumping
his fist.

At the grocery store, Rodney continued to let his good mood radiate,
wishing almost every person we walked by his trademarked "Happy
Holidays!"  I rewarded his shopping work ethic with a chocolate egg,
which he happily unwrapped at home.  I cooked hutspot and some
sausages while he worked on a puzzle at the table.

After dinner, I gave Rodney a bath, then Marissa and I reported to the
kitchen for "baking hell day" as we have been calling it.  We were
each going to make double batches of, respectively, Oatmeal
butterscotch cookies and palmiers.  We worked in the kitchen the rest
of the music, baking, chatting, and joking about the endless toil
around baking in general.  "We could open up a bakery around this
concept - just being reluctant and grumpy about everything we make," I
joked.

We finally closed the kitchen just before midnight, and making the
decision to trade in some sleep for time on the couch, I poured a
drink and slumped over in front of the TV with Marissa.  By the time
we had watched a couple of YouTube videos, my eyes started to grow
heavy and we retreated upstairs.

This morning, I'm heading into the office, and I'm trying to get in a
writing mindset.  That technical paper I was supposed to be working on
all week remains practically untouched, so today the plan is to find a
quiet corner and write as if my life depended on it, breaking only for
some leftover hutspot.  I think I can knock the whole thing out
today.  Technical writing is difficult, but it doesn't squeeze your
mind dry the same way that creative writing does.  There's no danger
in writing too much and churning out drivel - either your technical
paper accurately and concisely describes the solution, or it doesn't
and you have to rewrite the sentences that are not clear.  I may call
on the help from several cups of coffee, but we'll get it done.

That's what I got today.  I hope you have a wonderful day, and as
always, thanks for reading.  Happy Wednesday, everyone.

*** 2019-12-19 Thursday work, focus, meditation, fish stew, and mussel puppets

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope wherever you are reading this, you are
well-rested and staying warm.  We're really descending into the meaner
weeks of winter now, aren't we?  Yesterday I tried to break up the day
by taking a quick walk around the square.  Despite wearing my winter
coat and my thickest hoodie, I had to turn back around after walking
only to the corner.

But I'm feeling warm and well-rested myself.  Yesterday was a pretty
good day.  I had a lot of work to do, so I spent at least a half hour
making a list for the day and mentally splitting up the work load.
Aside from our morning stand-up, my day was wide open, but if you have
a lot to do, sometimes filling the time is it's own kind of challenge,
isn't it?

I worked through the morning, then took a break to eat lunch at my
desk.  I hat some leftover hutspot, which also hat some sliced sausage
in it.  I ate with some buttered toast and those delicious little
yogurt covered pretzels.  After lunch, I changed to a different
location in the building.  Sometimes I can prolong my focus on one
thing if I move somewhere else in the middle of the day.  I went up to
the ninth floor just outside the mediation room so I would be ready
for Ki Gong class in the afternoon.  After a couple more hours of
writing, I shut my laptop and head inside to start class.

I was secretly dreading exercising.  But having committed to Ki Kong,
I was ready to put the sleepy sensation of digesting a stomach full of
potatoes and sausage and trust the process.  And it paid off.  When
our instructor Justin entered the room he grinned and opened with
"We're going to do something a little different today," as he often
does.  Justin explained that we're going to magnify the three minutes
of quiet meditation that takes place at the end of each session and
extend it to last the whole session.  In short, all we had to do was
lay on a mat and think about nothing for a half hour, and while on
some days that may have been a challenging undertaking for me, after
staying up late baking cookies and writing all day, nothing sounded
better than laying on the floor and thinking about leaves falling into
a river.  Twenty-five minutes of mental space travel later, the five
of us sat up and we left, parting ways to finish the work day.

I worked until four, catching up on my team's ticket duty question
queue, then used the rest of the time at my desk to pick a recipe for
the evening.  The night before, Marissa and I had sleepily watched a
recipe for a spicy Brazilian fish stew.  Warm, soupy fish sounded
good, but Rodney wouldn't like the sliced spicy peppers, and Marissa
wasn't keen on coconut milk.  Snooping around my saved YouTube videos,
I found a "Five Minute Fisherman's Stew", which satisfied my desire
for hot soup and hot fish without the peppers or coconut milk.

I took the bus home, then leaving Marissa to nap on the couch, I
extracted Rodney from his warm blankets and jumped in the car.  We
drove to the Jenny Street grocery store.  As advised by Chef John, I
was planning on springing for the best seafood in town.  In fish stew,
there's nowhere for the fish to hide - it's the star of the show, so I
wanted the best stuff we could get.  Rodney and I bought frozen
mussels, a strip of haddock, a cod fillet, and a half dozen shrimp,
along with a can of tomatoes, lobster stock, clam juice, fennel,
garlic, and a nice fresh loaf of sourdough bread.  We also picked up a
box of frozen corn dogs and a bag of twizzlers - not for dinner, but
just because Rodney was insistent.  Wanted to see where he was going
with these ingredients, I indulged him.

Rodney and I head home and, leaving Mom to continue napping on the
couch with the dogs, we starting cooking soup.  Rodney and I blended
tomatoes with lobster stock and clam juice and strained out the seeds.
We sliced the fennel, setting aside some of the stringy leaves for
garnish style points later on.  We peeled a head of garlic.  Rodney
actually managed to get all the paper off of one of the cloves.  And
even though he then proceeded to lop of chunks of the clove with a
butter knife, his skill progression in the kitchen impressed me.

Into the dutch oven went butter, fennel, garlic, and olive oil.  I
added white wine, simmered it, then introduced our fishy tomato juice.
After it had reduced for five minutes, I slid the cubes of fish meat
into the stew, then added a half dozen frozen mussels.  I blasted the
stove heat and covered the pot for five minutes.  I opened the lid,
and ladled the stew into some bowls and set the table.

As we ate, we talked about the day, the impeachment trial, and our
plans for the evening.  "No fun tonight," I said.  "I have a CRAP ton
of chores.  I skimped on yesterday's so we could bake the cookies, and
Wednesday is a heaver day anyway where I do the fridge, microwave and
stove anyway."  Marissa grinned in anticipation.

"I did all your chores," she said breaking her smile.  "I wanted to
take a giant nap today and feel like I earned it."  I leaned back in
my chair to process the news.  Suddenly my evening opened up, and my
plan to busily scrub the kitchen and stay awake with loud hip hop
music became plans to put Rodney to bed, and take a nice nap myself -
after of course we spent an extra twenty minutes at the table with
Rodney pretending the empty mussel shells were puppets.  I was
grateful that Marissa had done my chores, and then with a happy belly
full of fish and garlic, I put Rodney to bed and took an hour long nap
upstairs.  When I woke up, I cleaned the kitchen from dinner, then
Marissa and I started a movie.  It was a great night.

This morning, my day is a bit rearranged, and I'm doing my best to
keep on rhythm.  I have a meeting with an engineer from one of our
teams in Europe, and to time the cross continental remote chat with
their afternoon before leaving work, that meant committing to 8 AM my
time.  So the plan is to shower and get ready for the day after the
meeting, then work from home until lunch.  In a few minutes, I'll boot
up my work laptop and brush up on context while slamming another cup
of coffee.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful day.  Stay
warm, lay on a yoga mat, and eat fish.

*** 2019-12-20 Friday corn dogs, mall santas, chinese food, and healing

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope this entry finds you well.  It's chilly
this morning, but the weather nerds promise it may warm up a bit
today.  Last night before going to bed, Marissa and I were kicking
around the idea of checking out the Zoo, which is currently decked out
with Christmas lights.  It certainly sounds like a great way to
celebrate - /drum roll please/ - the end of Christmas gauntlet week.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  In the morning, I hung around the
house with Rodney.  We ate some breakfast, which consisted of some
mini Dutch apple cereal bars.  I put about seven of them on Rodney's
plate, planning to eat half of them, but Rodney practically knocked my
hand away.  "Dada NO," he scolded me.  "Rodney's - not dada's."  I
reluctantly grabbed three more out of the box and put them on a napkin
beside me.  You gotta pick your battles, right?

After breakfast, Marissa left for dog class, and Rodney and I
eventually moved upstairs.  I worked at my desk while Rodney screwed
around with things in my technology bin.  The way Rodney sees my tech
min, echoing the words of my boss, "it's just a really expensive box
of LEGOs."  Rodney spent the morning fiddling with an Ethernet crimper
and trying to stick SD cards in a DVD burner.  Rodney, of course, took
the work seriously.  "No Blippi - Rodney work."

We both took a break for some lunch, heating up some frozen corn dogs
and leftover hutspot.  Marissa returned home just as we were sitting
down to eat.  After a quick lunch, we all took a drive to my office
and dropped off some cookies.  Marissa chatted with my team while
Rodney and I played with a whiteboard wheeled against the wall.  My
teammate Alex joined us and demonstrated some of his improvisational
sketching skills.  Taking orders from Rodney, he drew shapes,
airplanes and even an imaginary take on a "Jesus plane", which may or
may not have been what Rodney was actually trying to say, but
entertaining nonetheless.

I bid my family farewell, and worked the rest of the afternoon.  Being
on ticket duty this week, I picked up a low priority edge case that
sounded pretty amusing.  We had a script that was occasionally timing
out when our VMs launch in Amazon, so wearing my UNIX hat, I wrote a
cute little function wrapper around it.  I borrowed a machine in our
staging environment to test my new code, and to my delight, it worked
on the first try.

I rewarded my efforts by treating myself to a White Claw in our
Thursday happy hour.  I sat upstairs chatting with my team before
finally heading outside and jumping on the bus homeward.

We had big plans for Thursday evening, so immediately after arriving
home we all jumped in the car and headed towards the mall.  Rodney was
already muttering to himself about seeing Santa and asking him for
tools.  When we got to the mall, we claimed a spot in line.  Rodney
amused himself by talking to a kid waiting behind us, who was playing
Pokemon Go on his dad's phone and kindly offered to get Rodney
involved.  Rodney returned the favor by letting him play with a tiny
motorcycle that he keeps in his pocket these days.

I was proud of how friendly and considerate Rodney was playing with a
complete stranger he met in line, and doubly surprise that the other
boy returned the favor.  Two three year old boys meeting for the first
time and having absolutely no issue sharing their toys - at the mall
of all places - seems like a miracle or something.

It was finally our turn to see Santa, and as we approached the chair
(Santa's throne?), Rodney's shyness started to kick in.  He stood
about three feet away and muttered the request he had been rehearsing
in the car.  Santa patiently smiled and offered him a paper ornament.
"This is much further than we got last year," Marissa explained.  It's
true - last year, we stood in line, then Rodney refused to approach
Santa, so the fact that he even spoke to him was a big deal for us.
Maybe by this time next year, he'll be ready to give Santa a high
five.

We ordered some Chinese food in the food court, and as Rodney picked
at a crab Rangoon, Marissa and I chatted.  I had found time earlier in
the day to read more of my /Difficult Conversations/ book, and it was
on my mind, so I shared.  Without going into too much detail, Marissa
and I had some neighbor trouble earlier in the year.  The
confrontation certainly left a deep scratch on 2019 for us, and we
used the rest of our time shopping to analyze it, strolling around in
the mall and letting Rodney burn some energy in the kids play area.

As dorky as it sounds, we tried to look at the conflict through the
lens of the book.  And several months later, we were both still
feeling sad, anxious, and confused about the whole thing, and having a
difficult time letting go of the painful experience.  We were willing
to try anything at that point.  We walked through the timeline of the
fight, this time paying attention to our own contributions to
situation, avoiding guessing at their intentions, negotiating with our
strong emotions, and trying to assemble a more complete story.  And it
helped, too.  Using each other as a sound board, we made some real
progress, and this morning personally I'm feeling much less angry
about it.  We finished off the night of shopping with a quick Target
stop.  I distracted Rodney while Marissa bought his stocking stuffers,
all the while enjoying the afterglow of a small, tandem psychological
breakthrough.  "I'm glad we talked about it," Marissa said.  "I feel
good."  I think that's evidence that some healing took place last
night in the mall, and I felt it too.

So that's what I got today.  I went a little long today, and I
probably missed my bus, but I'm going to try anyway.  Thanks for
reading, and hope you have a wonderful Friday.  Here's to the end of
holiday gauntlet week!

*** 2019-12-21 Saturday breakfast, work, zoo lights, and sleep

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  We're late off the presses this morning.  I
slept in, as did the rest of my family.  And after rolling out of bed
around 9:30, I had a choice to make.  I could frantically clean the
kitchen just well enough to make a pot of coffee and muscle through
the grogginess, or I could take my time, let my family sleep a little
longer, make breakfast, and just commit to a late morning, early
afternoon kind of journal entry.  So that's how we got here.

We had a lovely morning.  I cleaned up from last night's pizza while
pumping up with some Beyonce.  Rodney woke up next, and he spent some
time in our bedroom fiddling around with an old portable DVD player I
had in my closet.  He took the batteries out of the tiny remote, then
asked me for help putting them back.  "Flat side goes against spring,"
he said aloud repeating my words.  Kind of a weird activity to do
first thing in the morning, but everyone wakes up in their own way.
Some people listen to music and drink coffee, and people like Rodney
jump right to learning about batteries.

Eventually, Marissa and the dogs rolled out of bed and we all ate some
breakfast around the table.  I paused my Beyonce playlist and switched
to some low key Christmas Jazz to set the mood.  Rodney finished
breakfast first, and politely excused himself to go fiddle with his
playdough, leaving me and Marissa to discuss the day.  "This is /my/
gauntlet," Marissa explained.  "I have to finish wrapping, then take a
bunch of presents to the post office.  Then I have to go to Home Depot"

Furthermore, Marissa kindly agreed to take Rodney to run errands with
her to give me time to finish up my end of the year mixtape.  I say
"finish up" like I have an hour more of work to do, but honestly I
barely started.  I have about seven tracks, and they need some more
cleaning up.  I have to finish curating the rest of the tracks, and
this year I also have aspirations to write an accompanying essay
explaining why each track made the cut.  So it's going to be a busy
two days for me as well, but it's the fun kind of busy.  I'm getting
excited just explaining what I have to do.

Yesterday was a great day.  I finished my technical paper and
submitted it to the company architects, grabbed a bite to eat from
Starbucks, and helped out some people trying to configure the client
side of some services we run.  I had a fun debugging session with this
guy I know who works in the San Francisco office.  Over a remote video
meeting, we both stared at his terminal in silence trying to figure
out what was wrong.  "The command works in the foreground, but once
you send it to systemd," he said, "it just fails, with no output."

"Can I see the configuration file?" I asked.  His terminal flickered
as the configuration file scrolled by.  Hemanth paused for a second,
then asked, "if the command works in the foreground, why do you need
to see the config file?"

"I don't know," I said.  "I guess I was just buying time while I
thought of a better question to ask."  Hemanth laughed, and finally
after bouncing ideas off of each other for twenty minutes, we tracked
down the issue.

To finish off the work week, my team went to the bar across the street
for happy hour, and my boss bought us a round.  On Friday afternoons,
we normally have a meeting where we look back at the week and discuss
what worked, what didn't work, and things we should try the next work
week.  And even though we were drinking beer at a bar, we still had
that kind of meeting.  "Retrospectives", to use an industry term, are
cathartic, and a great way to process everything that happened.

After work, I took a bus home where Marissa was napping on the couch.
I got Rodney out of bed, and we picked up a few things at Hy-Vee.  At
home, after baking a sfincione, I threw some slices of pizza in
tinfoil.  The plan was to eat on the road while we drove to the zoo so
we can enjoy the "zoo lights" event they throw in the winter.  Rodney
was so excited that he dug through his pile of things to find his "zoo
animals" book, clutching it closely in the car ride over.

Zoo lights was a puzzling experience.  Maybe we're wrong here, but
Marissa, Rodney, and I expected to see some animals.  But after
plunking down seven bucks a person (and an extra eight bucks for two
cups of hot chocolate), wandering the zoo for a half hour it became
clear that the animals had been packed up for the night.  It appeared
that "zoo lights" really just meant looking at Christmas lights around
the zoo at night.  Rodney was the most puzzled of all.  He even
knocked on the glass a few times, asking "Mamma animals GONE?"

And just in case the experience wasn't strange enough, upon entering
the Zoo, a guy stepped in front of me and said, "Excuse me, just
wanted you to know that you're wearing a Bears hat."  A smile curled
around his big, pale face, and a woman he was walking with stood
waiting patiently behind him.  Honestly, I should have let him just
stand there and feel stupid, but I guess when I don't have time to
think, I err on the charitable side.  I acted surprised, touched my
head, and replied, "Oh thanks for letting me know."  As he walked
away, I had the urge to blurt something out, but I let him go on his
way.  The confrontation wasn't terribly upsetting.  It just put me in
a weird mood for the rest of the evening.

Just before we called it a night, we swung by the sea otter exhibit,
and luckily there were two sea lions still awake and playing by the
glass.  They were bouncing a ball underwater to each other.  "Mama,
they're playing soccer," Rodney said.  A much older boy wearing one of
those full winter face masks corrected Rodney loudly.  "It's not
soccer it's just regular playing," he said.  Rodney ignored him, and
under my breath I muttered something that I can't repeat here.

So I submit my case to the community.  If a free Zoo is throwing an
evening event called "Zoo Lights", and they're charging seven bucks a
person, would you expect to see some animals?  We did, and now we're
wrestling with the outcome.  And I get it - animals have to sleep.
Maybe it would be inhumane to wake them up just to entertain people.
But that still begs the question - what exactly was the seven dollars
a person for?  Was that just to see the Christmas lights?

We drove home and put Rodney to bed.  Pretty soon, I was on the couch
under a blanket, and suddenly the stress and exhaustion from a week on
ticket duty caught up with me and I was asleep.  I woke up to the
Office playing sometime past midnight.  I went to bed shortly after.
Sleep is wonderful.  This week, I forgot how much I enjoyed sleeping.

Hope you have wonderful day.  Catch up on sleep, and get yourself in a
good mood for the holidays.  And do me a favor, fellow Bears fans.  If
you see someone walking with their family at the Zoo, and they happen
to be wearing a Packers hat, just leave them alone.  After all, you're
at the Zoo as well.  Why are you thinking about football?

*** 2019-12-22 Sunday mixtapes, errands, roasted chicken, and splinter cell

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It's a wonderful day, isn't it?  It's only
Sunday and I've had so much sleep, I barely feel the need to drink any
coffee today.  I still will drink coffee, because going without coffee
in the morning would be absolutely crazy.  Speaking of coffee, the
Moccamaster is still absolutely killing it.  I think we found our
coffee maker for life.  The smaller pot was a little strange to get
used to (it's only 10 cups as opposed to the usual 12), but conversely
it magically takes about five minutes to brew a new pot.  I don't know
how it heats up the water so quickly, but it's a joy to watch.

And my metal filter finally arrived in the mail - it fits much better
than the flat paper ones I was using.  Unbeknownst to us, the package
had been sitting in front of our side door for a month, and while
stepping out to drop off some cookies with our neighbors, Marissa
stumbled across it.  I guess we need to check that door for mail
occasionally.

Yesterday was a pretty great day too.  We all slept in and got a late
start, then Marissa took Rodney out running some errands, leaving me
at home with the dogs to work on my mixtape.  I worked on it pretty
much the whole day, ordering and editing tracks, arriving at just shy
of 160MB of music.  I didn't do any writing, but now I'm on the fence
about it.  I might instead put time into just making a cool CD cover
and burning more copies.  I think the mix turned out pretty good this
year.  I gave it a test run while I showered and got dressed, and it
has got good momentum and decent variety.

After Marissa returned home with Rodney, we all jumped in the car
again and went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner.  I decided to make Chef
John's [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h6OSMbfhIao][Greek lemon garlic roasted chicken & potatoes]], which has been
camping out in my favorites for a while.  We picked up some drumsticks
and thighs, russet potatoes, kale, and salad dressing.  By the time we
got home, it was already 6:30, so I decided to serve the kale salad
first, which had sliced apples, grapefruit, a raspberry dressing, and
just a whole hecking ton of roasted sunflower seeds.  While we munched
on salad and some bread, I roasted the potatoes and chicken in the
oven, tossed in lemon juice, olive oil, garlic, and spices, and basted
in some chicken broth.  It turned out really good, and I think it will
definitely be returning as a weeknight recipe.

We put Rodney to bed, then Marissa and I spent the rest of the night
hanging out.  I decided to play some video games, and being in the
mood for some nostalgia, I spun up /Splinter Cell: Conviction/, which
was a game released in 2010 that I was deeply obsessed with in
college.  The game really holds up.  As I started the first level, all
the muscle memory ingrained in my fingers from hours of playing that
game returned, and to my delight I expertly zipped through the first
four levels.  Marissa came downstairs and joined me on the couch.

"So bring me up to speed here, what's this game about?" Marissa asked.
I took a minute to gather my thoughts while absentmindedly choking out
a guard in the shadows.  "Well Sam Fischer is like this government
agent special ops dude," I said.  "And he thought his daughter died,
but it turns out it was a set-up.  And it wasn't even his daughter,
and she might be alive.  And the lady talking in my headset is Anna
Grimmsdotter, and she's working as a mole for my old agency which is
now run by this bad dude named Tom Reid...", my voice trailed off as I
struggled to unpack the rest of the plot.  "You know what," I said
interrupted myself.  "It's not really the kind of game where you need
to understand the plot to enjoy it."  Marissa nodded, undoubtedly
relieved that she could check out from my meandering recap.  As Sam, I
was sneaking around a little carnival in front of the Washington
Monument.  Some dudes sent to /take me out/ evacuated the carnival
under the premise of a gas leak, and were now stalking the labyrinth
of rides and attractions looking for Sam.  We chuckled listening to
the background dialog that would get louder as I approached an
unsuspecting baddie.  "Guys, we wanted to get the jump on Sam, but I
think the /opposite/ is true."  In all my years of playing this game,
I don't think even I've ever heard that line.  And it sounded very out
of place.

Just before shutting off the game, I abandoned stealth and ran into
broad daylight and attracted a furry of machine gun fire.  I wanted to
see how long I could last.  After running in awkward figure eights
beneath a spotlight amidst frantic shouting and machine gun fire, Sam
Fischer finally slumped to the ground.  An EMP grenade I threw just
before dying exploding, which looked especially cinematic.  I turned
off the game, and Marissa and I used the last hour of the night to
enjoy some popcorn and watch a movie.

Today, the plan is to go to church (which is quickly approaching, at
the time of writing this we have about forty minutes before we need to
jump in the car).  After church, we're going to go to the grocery
store, which is going to take some thought, since between traveling
and holidays, we'll need to get enough food in our house to last us
through Christmas.  Sometime in the afternoon, my good buddy from
college Grant is going to stop by on his way up to Wausau, so we're
looking forward to hanging out with him, and maybe even making him a
snack to get him through the last leg of his drive.  Lastly, it's game
day.  The Bears are playing tonight at seven, and for the first time
in a while, all three of us will be home to watch it together.  It
might not be the most meaningful game of the season, but watching
football together is fun on its own merit.

That's what I got today.  Whatever you get up to, I hope you have a
relaxing, yet productive weekend.  Bear down!

*** 2019-12-23 Monday grant, bears, travel plans, and doctor's appointments

 Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It's officially Christmas week.  I have the
week off work, and a glorious thirteen minutes from now, I finally go
off call, and can finally lean into the celebration without having to
worry about phone reception and having my laptop around.  Luckily it
was a pretty uneventful week of on call duty.  I don't think I got a
single page all weekend, and for the next thirteen minutes I'd like to
keep it that way.

This morning, Marissa and I popped out of bed at the same time as our
phones chirped and whirred.  We have a busy morning.  First, we have a
doctors appointment across the street.  This is the big appointment
where we get to find out if the baby is a boy or a girl, and we also
get to take home some more vivid, developed ultrasound scans.  So
we're pretty excited.  After the hospital, the plan is to quickly and
accurately pack everything in the car we need for an overnight stay in
Chicago.  We're driving down, then visiting my Grandma on my mother's
side and my Grandpa on my father's side.  No doubt it will be a busy
day of driving and reconnecting.

Speaking of reconnecting, yesterday was a pretty great day.  We had
planned on having Grant over in the afternoon as a pit stop, but he
got tied up, and we ended up convincing him to stay for dinner.  We
had a great time, and it was wonderful reconnecting with Grant.  As we
chatted around the dinner table drinking coffee and letting our dinner
digest, Rodney paraded every vehicle and dinosaur in his toy fleet at
the table for Uncle Grant to observe.

I had a lot of fun talking to Grant.  Having now lived in Wisconsin
for a solid five year tenure, I had plenty of questions for him -
cheese, football, music, politics, VPNs, and wildlife.

Grant is into some cool stuff these days.  During the school year, he
teaches music at an international school in China, but he also finds
time to run Ironman races, brew his own beer, and play keyboard in a
band.  Living in China, he gets his coffee and his cheese delivered in
bulk.  I feel weirdly proud of my college roommates.  It's still
surreal to me that these people who used to sit around the dorm,
cussing at each other while playing Mario Kart and eating junk food
are now flung all over the world leading, helping, and teaching.  I'm
proud to be cut from the same cloth - especially Grant.

We said farewell to Grant, and I quickly turned on the Bears game.  I
hadn't missed much - the Chiefs were already up by a touchdown and
change, and the Bears had yet to score.  It was a typical Bears game -
the defense holding an otherwise great team under twenty points, and
the Bears offense struggling to convert long drives into the red zone
into actual touchdowns.  Hearing the announcers call fourth and one,
leaving the sink running I dashed into the dining room to witness what
I thought would be a touchdown.  Trubisky dropped back and threw a
short fade pass to Robinson, which was incomplete.  The Chiefs
eventually scored another touchdown, and the Bears at least got on the
board with a field goal.  I didn't expect us to win this game, but NBC
was really making a laughing stock out of our team, constantly
dredging up the Mahomes & Trubsisky draft drama and talking about
/what could have been/, and at one point they even sunk so low to show
a slow motion replay of Parkey's game losing "double doink" field goal
that ended last year's season.  I'm seriously considering watching
football games on mute - with these awful commentators yammering over
the games, I'm not sure how much my melting my brain can take and how
much hurting my heart can take at this point.

After the game, I retreated upstairs to lick my wounds and burn some
CDs.  I printed the mixtape labels, cut them out, and taped them to
empty CD jackets.  They turned out really cool this year.  I decided
to embrace the oldschool pirated music aesthetic.  The labels are sort
of jagged, and there are some wrinkles in the clear packaging tape.  I
hand wrote "2019" on the disk.  Hey - it's a mixtape.  It's supposed
to look a little rough.

The actual audio itself turned out way better than I expected.
Marissa and I listened to the playlist while cleaning the house.  Just
as I had hoped for, the playlist had great momentum, and none of the
song transitions take you out of the moment.  And this year, I'm proud
to say that some low key audio engineering took place.  With Audacity
now in my software toolbelt, that opens up the possibility for some
really interesting side projects.

I'm looking forward to this coming week - seeing family, celebrating,
and relaxing.  And tomorrow morning, I'm the designated brunch cook.
I finally get to show my family what our famous Recker family morning
Dutch baby tastes like.  I'm bringing my own cast iron pan from home
and a fresh unopened jar of clarified butter.

Between visiting my side and visiting Marissa's side, we have
Christmas Eve and Christmas day at our place.  I'm excited to watch
Rodney come down the stairs and open presents.  Marissa put a lot of
work into the presents this year.  "Who are you most excited to watch
open their gift?" She asked as we were going to bed.  "I don't even
remember what we got everyone," I sleepily replied.  "The dogs?"

It's time to jump in the shower, then get Rodney out of bed.  In forty
five minutes, we have a very important doctors appointment where we'll
learn if we're having a little girl or another dumb stinky boy.  Truth
be told, I'm 100% fine with either.  Hope you all have a wonderful
Monday today, and if you're driving, stay safe.  Happy holidays!

*** 2019-12-24 Tuesday sons, grandparents, and pictures

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  And happy Christmas Eve.  This morning I'm
coming to you from my mother's kitchen.  I'm slowly waking up,
clinging to a cup of coffee.  It felt great to sleep in, but at this
point I think I'm just trying to work through the grogginess.  /Sip/.

Yesterday was a full, wonderful day.  We had an early morning doctor's
appointment to check on new baby.  The nurse casually performed an
ultrasound, and upon zooming the computer screen in on a prominent
penis and pair of testicles, announced, "It's a boy."  Marissa and I
sleepily smiled at each other.  The nurse turned to Rodney, who was
quietly playing with his trucks in a chair.  "Do you want a baby
brother?" She asked.

"No," Rodney said absently.  "Rodney don't want a brother."  We all
had a good laugh.  If you had asked me what my preferences were that
morning, I would have said I wanted a girl - perhaps feeling some kind
of responsibility to diversify our household, but upon hearing the
diagnosis, I felt relieved.  "Boys are easy, and familiar," Marissa
reflected Marissa as we made our way out to the parking lot.  I
agreed.  At any rate, now we can just outright say this - expect Miles
Dirk Recker sometime in May.

After the appointment, we skirted home and packed the car.  Luckily,
the anatomy scan went a little more quickly than expected, so we had
some time to tidy up the house before hitting the road.

We arrived in Geneva in the afternoon, then after setting up the dogs
in the basement, promptly jumped back in my parents' car, heading to
Munster.  Our first stop was Rodney's Great Grandpa Fred.  The rest of
our family met up in the lobby of his assisted living home, then, as
my mother described it, we "descended on his room like a whirlwind."
A loving whirlwind, at that.  Rodney and his cousins played with toys
on the floor while we all took turns chatting with Grandpa.  And the
Recker sons got to take another "four generations" picture - Rodney,
me, my dad, and great grandpa Fred.

As we chatted, Marissa pulled some pictures off the shelf and asked
grandpa about it.  He had a black and white picture of he and his
first wife in a car.  "That was my girlfriend," he said looking at the
picture.

We said our goodbye's, then hit the road again, this time to Crete
Illinois.  After five minutes of driving, my dad announced, "we just
crossed the Illinois border."  My parents and extended family grew up
on the Illinois/Indiana border, and they still knew all the sights.
My parents pointed out their favorite diner, and the butcher where my
dad used to work.

We stopped off to pick up an Aurelio's pizza, and witch the beautiful
scent of cheddar, sausage, and sweet red sauce filling the car, drove
a little further to Crete Illinois where my grandma resides.  We
parked, headed in, and after setting up all the kids in the kitchen,
we moved to the dining room where we chatted over pizza.

My grandma told stories about grandpa, some of them I had never heard
before.  I knew my grandpa was in the Netherlands when the Nazis
invaded, but I didn't know the details.  "He was taken and forced to
cook for them on a boat," she explained.  "And he had a big trench
coat - his Nazi uniform, and he said he used to only put half the meat
into the soup that he was supposed to, and he'd just put it in his
trench coat," she continued.  "And when he'd get home late at night,
he'd wake up his family and his trench coat would be lined with
sausages, butter, and bread," she laughed.  "The Nazis would have shot
him if they ever found out."

My grandma went on to talk about how he spoke both Dutch and "low
class Dutch," as she put it.  "People used to make fun of all the
words I said," she explained.  "And Pa would get so embarassed."
While talking about Dutch, I let it slip that I had been trying to
learn on my own over the past year, and to my grandma's delight, we
exchanged some Dutch words.  "See, that's high class Dutch!" she
exclaimed.  "You speak better Dutch than I do."  Don't get me wrong, I
would still like to learn low class Dutch.  There's no point learning
another people's language if you can't speak to the real people.

After an evening laughing and eating with my Grandma, we head home for
the night.  I shared a drink with my parents before they went to bed,
and Marissa and I rummaged through old photos in the basement.  Seeing
pictures of my dad in his twenties, our shared resemblance shocked me.
"You are the spitting image of your dad," is yet another cliche that
gains more meaning over time.  Honestly, if he was wearing a hoodie or
something, you could have fooled me and told me that was a picture of
me in college, and I'd believe you without giving it a second look.

So yesterday was a /whirwind/ of family, memories, and nostalgia.  I
loved hearing the stories of my family - both stories I've heard
before, and new ones that I had somehow missed.  And spending the day
talking to both my living grandparents on both sides of the family on
the same day we found out we were having another son was an
interesting pairing.  It made me think about my name, my family, and
the possibility that someday Miles and Rodney will be rummaging
through a box of photos marveling at how similar we looked.

As for this morning, after wrapping up this entry, I'm going to move
on to making breakfast for the family.  The workstation is primed and
ready to crank out Dutch babies until we're all satisfied.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Tell stories, eat breakfast,
and take it easy.

*** 2019-12-25 Wednesday christmas
    
Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Merry Christmas to all the readers out there.
This morning, I rolled out of bed some time around nine, and started
the day off by frying a pound of bacon and making French toast out of
a stale loaf of sourdough bread, which we had the foresight to buy and
set aside before driving to Chicago on Monday.  Eating bacon and
french toast on the couch, we let Rodney pull the wrapping paper off
of his new train table and his tools.  Rodney didn't yell or
anything - he just quietly and urgently started to play with his new
train table.  Marissa, who has proven herself to have the Christmas
work ethic of a real life workshop elf, stayed up past one in the
morning assembling it in the play corner.  I had long since passed out
on the couch with Ziggy in my lap.

After Rodney, Marissa pulled my shoddy wrapping paper off of her new
Prison Mike themed glittery pillow.  She cackled as his big wide face
came into view.

I opened my gift from Marissa, which was a computer case that was on
my wishlist as well as a tiny wooden figuring whittled and painted in
the exact likeness of Ziggy.  Even down to the spots and her thin
black "bandit stripes" that run beneath her eyes.

Then we have the stockings.  The dogs got some new toys, and Rodney
got a truck, some candy, a bag of marshmallows, and a blue Hotwheels
bath bomb.  In my stocking, Santa slipped in an entire bottle of top
shelf Mescal.  It even had a little mealworm rolling around in the
bottom, so you know it's the good stuff.  Before going to bed last
night, I was sad to see that Marissa didn't have anything in her
stocking, so I dropped three clemintines inside, which was a callback
to a pregnancy craving joke that she immediately remembered.

Now with Christmas gifts open, we started a movie in the background
and we've resided to just lounging around the house drinking coffee.
By Rodney's request, we're playing Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure,
which though it may not be an outright Christmas music as you'd think
of it, I'd argue that there are still a lot of Christmas themes - so
it passes in my book.

Christmas is a great day, isn't it?  Somewhere between all the gift
buying chaos and relentless traveling, I forget that Christmas day
itself is a pretty sweet holiday.  When it comes to maximizing a week
off work, nothing gets the job done like lounging around the house
with some good food and some new toys to play with.  

Speaking of toys, between Marissa's router case and a hard drive hub
that my little sister got me, I think I'm going to have some fun side
projects coming up.  I'm looking forward to getting the file server
off the ground and into some newer, tidier hardware.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day.  After rolling out of bed at my
parents' house, we cooked breakfast all through the morning.  I
grossly underestimated the number of Dutch babies we'd need, and
instead of making the two I anticipated we ended up cranking out four
in total.  But it all worked out, and the last two that came out of
the oven were the most photogenic of all.

We went for a long walk around the block with all the cousins, letting
them play at the park.  Rodney climbed a rock wall for the first time,
and he even hung out with some older local neighborhood kids.
Meanwhile, I galloped around the park with my little niece Frankie.
She's a goofy kid, and I was grateful to get some face time with her
and bond over running up the slide and giving her the "spider-man
treatment" - that's where you pick up a baby and make them jump around
like Spider-man.  It's even more fun if they pretend to shoot webs.

Back at my parents' place, we had an early dinner of venison and
lasagna, having plenty of beer, and later sharing cigars out back by
my dad's shed.  "I'm trying to make this shed smell more manly, so
please smoke inside," he instructed us.

We brought home a good haul of Christmas gifts, which I'm grateful
for.  Marissa drove home, and after putting Rodney to bed we worked
tirelessly to put the house together.  I unpacked the car and put away
our gifts, and Marissa got to work assembling Rodney's toys.

It's really remarkable how difficult some of these toys are to remove
from the packaging.  "I feel like I'm gutting a robot," I yelled in
frustrating, gouging and prying pieces of plastic and metal with a
pocket knife.  For the millions of toys assembled and packaged by
these toy companies every year, you have to wonder if any of these
people actually take the time to assemble one of their toys.

/Sip./ This morning, I'm drinking a tequila infused coffee roasted in
my old stomping ground of Rockford Illinois.  My older sister bought
it for me.  Looking around their website, I couldn't figure out if
"tequila infused" meant it was alcoholic or not.  For a moment last
night, Marissa and I thought it was the only bag of coffee we had in
the house, and it posed a small problem for the morning.  Would
Marissa be able to drink any?  "How about I wake up an hour before you
and drink three cups, and I'll let you know if I feel drunk," I
suggested.  But before we could maul over the solution any longer,
Marissa found a bag of Breakfast Blend in her gifts.

This tequila coffee is pretty delicious, and very unique.  I'm only on
my first cup, so we'll see if /infused/ really means it's alcoholic.
If that's the case, it should be a fun morning.

This morning, above all we're feeling content.  And we're feeling
grateful for the family we get to see this week, as well as the time
we can spend together this morning as a nuclear family.  From our
family to yours, I hope you all have a wonderful holiday.

*** 2019-12-26 Thursday naps, nvg's, bowling, and fried plastic

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you all had a wonderful and relaxing
holiday.  Our Christmas morning yielded good gifts, good food, and
great naps.  Isn't it funny how little of the day Christmas morning
actually takes up?  After Marissa and I spent all morning preparing
gifts and a delicious breakfast all to give Rodney that magical
/coming down the stairs on Christmas morning/ sensation, it's funny
how suddenly you don't know what to do with yourself.

"Christmas is a weird day," I said to Marissa.  We were both up in our
bedroom putting things away.

"Don't say that about Christmas - it's the best day of the year,"
Marissa said.  I could tell that I had unintentionally slighted her
favorite holiday, and I reeled to clarify my stance.

"Look, I'm not a Christmas hater -"

"You're a Christmas hater.  You hate Christmas."  Marissa stood
squarely at her closet door, interrupting me to emphasize her point."

"It's just a weird day - that's all I'm saying," I sheepishly
continued.  "For an hour in the morning, our house feels like a Norman
Rockwell painting, but then afterwards, what do we do with ourselves?
It's a whole day!"  Marissa finally smirked.  "Did you know that while
you were napping, I put my apron on and then just paced around looking
for things to do?"  I said, my voice growing louder.

"It's a weird day, I'll give you that," Marissa nodded.

And that's true - while Marissa slept on the couch, I put my apron on
and looked for things to put away.  After Marissa woke, I took a three
hour nap, and at the end of it all the three of us were vaguely
rested, yet groggy, and hungry, yet full.  We were on the fence about
how to spend our evening.  We thought about seeing a movie, but the
only viable choice in theaters was /Spies in Disguise/ - which to be
frank, sitting through an animated movie where Will Smith voices a
talking pigeon sounded worse than Chinese water torture.  "We could go
bowling," I suggested.  Marissa shrugged her shoulders agreeably, and
Rodney overhearing the suggestion began to jump up and down.  "Bowling
bowling bowling," he cried as he bounced around the living room.

We prepared to leave, and as Rodney was putting his shoes on, he made
it clear he was bringing his "NVG's".  The play tools set we bought -
ahem - /santa brought/ him for Christmas included some goggles, and
Rodney assumed they were night vision goggles.  /NVG's/ for short.

We drove to Dream Lanes on the east side.  We ordered a pizza, I got a
beer, and we all bowled terribly.  Rodney beat Marissa and I by at
least thirty points, but he had bumpers and a metal ramp to guide the
ball into the middle of the pins.  As Marissa and I alternated helping
him bowl, I jokingly lined up the metal ramp with the gutter and said,
"alright Rod, we're gonna try a new technique here."  Marissa - or
/Prison Mike/ if we're going to use her bowling scoreboard alias,
cackled behind us.

We returned home and put Rodney to bed.  Then suddenly feeling
energized from all the napping and extra sleep accumulated from the
day off, I decided to redo my IT shelf.  I ripped all the parts off
the wall and got to assembling my new mini ITX case I got for my
router.  I hit a few snags.  As these things usually work out, the
back panel obstructed half the plugs behind the motherboard, and with
Marissa's help, we had to cut the metal.  Marissa's natural
craftsmanship took over, and not wanting to leave shoddy work to her
name, she took extra time to bend the jagged edges and round them off.

With the motherboard and loose SSD buttoned up in a case, I
reassembled my shelf.  This time around, the cable management
clicked.  I was more patient this time around, and while wrapping
cables in velcro, it suddenly occurred to me that good cable
management is a lot like training vines in a garden.  You can't bend
/every/ cable to your will, and sometimes it works out if you first
see where each cable wants to lie before securing it.

Feeling much better about the arrangement, it was finally time to hit
the big red switch on my surge protector.  The wall whirred to life,
but then suddenly I heard a fizz and a pop behind the Charter modem.
Upon further inspection, I had accidentally switched the power cables
between the modem and my switch.  While my switch seemed to adapt
fine, the unexpected difference in voltage appeared to fry my modem.
As irony would have it everything about my home network worked
perfectly, only there was no Internet.  I fished the fried modem out
of the wall and brought it to Marissa.  "It even kind of smells like
fried plastic," she laughed.

So with no connection to the outside world, Marissa and I spent the
rest of the night listening to music, and I even played some Splinter
Cell on the couch.  You can do more without Internet than I remember.

This morning, we're barreling down the high way blaring Rodney's
favorite car CD, bound for Minnesota.  We're beginning the second half
of our holiday duties, this time visiting Marissa's family.  At this
point, it's hard to tell if we're tired from too much sleep or not
quite enough.  I'm holding out in hope that after getting some fast
food and a crisp diet coke, I'll perk up and be ready to mingle with
more extended family.

So that's what we're up to today.  I still hold by my stance that
Christmas is a weird day.  Don't get me wrong - it's great, but at
some point I find rhythm and routine more relaxing than a sudden bing
of presents and rest.  But I don't think that makes me a Christmas
hater.

I hope you all have a wonderful post Christmas, whatever that means
for you.  If you have no plans, and you suddenly find yourself pacing
around your house looking for something to do, allow me to recommend
bowling.  That just might be a new Recker family Christmas tradition.

Thanks for reading, and have a wonderful day.

*** 2019-12-27 Friday gold rush, takeout, gifts, holiday spirit and clickbait

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning, I'm coming to you from
Rochester Minnesota, which is thankfully the last stop on our Holiday
week jaunt across the Midwest.  It's been a long week, and I've
already started to fantasize about being back home and returning to
regular weekday, weekends, and mornings.  But at least we're keeping
things simple this visit.  The day before we arrived, Renee & Tom had
just finished hosting Christmas for the extended family, and it became
clear that we were all on the same wavelength of keeping things
relaxing and low key.  Yesterday evening was hoodies, sweats, takeout
Italian food.  The name of the game was comfort.

We also spent a lot of time crashing on the couch and watching Gold
Rush, which I have to say, after being on the fence about the show, it
finally won me over.  The crew was already short on staff, and it got
so bad that they had to recruit the cook to drive a truck.  Then they
found that the retaining pond built to catch silt had broken overnight
due to the rain, and the boys had to scramble to fix it.  In the
process, that rolled a rock truck, and a tire dislodged.  Not having
the tools to fix the tire, they had to make a small explosion with
ether and a blowtorch to cause the rubber to expand and seat the tire.
In short, I find the amount of drama you can fit into an hour of gold
digging pretty impressive.  Perhaps that's the /real/ gold.  Think
about it.

I jumped in the car with Tom to go pick up dinner from Victoria's,
which happens to be the same restaurant Marissa used to work at in
high school.  Do you tip for takeout?  Tom and I debated the custom in
the car on the way over.  "You can't just tip everybody," I said.
"You have to draw a line somewhere."  Tom gave a stoic nod, signaling
his agreement.

As we were driving, Tom told me a bit about Rochester.  "Even though
the twin cities are bigger, Rochester is the fastest growing city," he
described as we coasted through city traffic.  "There are lots of new
restaurants coming up to," he continued.  He gestured to a passing
restaurant, "I like to take clients there, although it's pretty
expensive," he chuckled.

After dinner, we transitioned to gifts.  Rodney opened up lots of new
additions to his train table - trucks, cranes, train cars.  If he had
the awareness, he might begin to wonder if this Santa thing was a
conspiracy.  After opening a train table on Christmas morning, he sure
has been receiving a lot of gifts that are suspiciously complementary.
"Dude," I warned, "that Santa guy knows stuff, he's been busy."

Marissa got Renee a painting, and Tom opened up his new foldable saw.
With how many hunting and outdoor gadgets adorn Tom's very cool
mancave, I was half expecting him to have already bought this hack
saw, but to our relief, this was a new addition.

After cleaning up from presents, Marissa and I put Rodney to bed, then
joined Renee and Tom up in the kitchen for drinks.  Tom and Renee
broke out the apple pie flavored moonshine, which hit the spot, and
felt a lot more festive than beer.  We chatted at the kitchen island
about the tradeoffs of the holiday season.  "Everybody hates it," I
said.  "You can see it in peoples' eyes at Target, they're returning
things, running errands, and everyone just looks dead," I remarked.  I
motioned at Marissa.  "She calls me a Christmas hater, but most people
agree with me on this."

Marissa chimed in.  "I agree, but I haven't lost my Christmas spirit.
I still love it," she stated proudly.  Renee nodded.  Marissa and her
mother share an intense love and pride in the amount of effort they
put into Christmas.  Just as Marissa will stay up into the wee hours
of the night assembling toys, Renee will do the same with gifts and
treats.

We all exchanged hugs, then Marissa and I retreated to the basement
and stayed up for a few more hours chatting.  Before heading
downstairs, Renee peeked her head into the kitchen.  "I saw in your
blog you titled it 'burning plastic', what was that about?" she asked.

I smiled.  "That's just the story about my modem burning out," I
replied.  "You know, clickbait."  I shrugged my shoulders.  It's true,
sometimes I give stories a jazzier name to attract readers.

We finally turned in sometime around midnight.  I fell asleep
immediately, and sailed away to sleep.  I didn't even have any weird,
elaborate nightmares I usually have while traveling away from my home.

I'm feeling pretty good this morning.  "Ever since I started taking my
own pillow places, my sleep game has been on another level," I boasted
coming up the stairs.  And it's true - I take my little blue
cylindrical neck pillow everywhere with me, and with the way I talk it
up to people, you'd think I was making commission on these.  Marissa
was even singing its praises yesterday after she borrowed it for a car
nap.

My neck pillow helps, but I'm sure what really did it was sleeping in.
Rodney climbed out of his bed in the corner sometime around 9:30, and
his clambering and tumbling around our bed eventually woke up Marissa
too.

This morning, I'm wearing my brand new Bears Jersey, which I opened up
last night.  Tom and Renee kindly bought be an immersion blender as
well as an Ackiem Hicks Bears jersey.  I put it on last night, and
after coming up the stairs with it on this morning, the family
teasingly accused me of sleeping in it.  Which I can neither conform,
nor deny at this time.

So this morning, we're finishing up breakfast, and the plan is to head
to Forager to retrieve Marissa's paintings, which have been hanging on
display there through the holiday season.  And we will probably stay
there for lunch and a beer.  But first, we're going to drink the rest
of this coffee, watch a few more episodes of Gold Rush, and I'll
casually pace by the bathroom mirror a few more times to get a proud
look at my new Bears jersey.  Man, it even smells good.  Nothing beats
fresh jersey smell.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful day, and thanks
for reading.  Here's to time off for the holiday, and soon a new
beginning in a new decade.  Oh, and happy Friday!

*** 2019-12-28 Saturday pho, cards, and sherpa socks

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all having a wonderful day.  At
the moment, we're barreling down the interstate highway bound for our
home in Madison Wisconsin.  Icy rain is gently rapping the windshield,
"New Body" by Kanye West is quietly thumping through the car speakers,
and Rodney is in the back seat man handling a blueberry donut like it
owes him money.  Marissa kindly agreed to drive the first leg of the
journey so I could write.

I didn't sleep great last night, but that was probably my doing.  To
celebrate our last night in Minnesota with Marissa's family, I sort of
opened the throttle on the pizza, snacks, and beer.  So I had a
difficult time rolling out of bed this morning, but thinking ahead at
the warm cup of coffee waiting for me at the Caribou drive-through, I
persevered.  We packed the car, said our goodbyes, and left this
morning around 9:30.  Something tells me that I just need to unpack
and have a nice bowl of soup, so the plan is to pick up some groceries
at Hy-Vee and whip up a leak and potato soup for dinner.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  We lounged around the house all
morning drinking coffee, and when we finally got hungry enough, we
jumped in the car to grab some Chipotle.  Walking all the way up to
the door, we stopped in our tracks - "Closed".  Marissa called her
parents, who were parking the car.  As they discussed a back up plan,
I obnoxiously hush-shouted /Pho/ into Marissa's ear.  She laughed, and
added "Alex is really excited about that Pho place... OK see ya
there."  Hearing that it was actually happening, I started to get
excited for our suddenly adventurous lunch.  I was referring to this
little Vietnamese restaurant in Rochester that is right off one of the
busier roads.  Despite it's unimaginative black-on-white signage that
just reads /PHO THAI/, I insisted that it was promising.  "I have a
good feeling about that place," I'd say while passing it, wagging my
finger out the window.  So needless to say, this was a pretty big day
for me.  We would finally put my restaurant instinct to the test.

We sat in the middle of a dining room, and to my relief, they were
busy.  Very busy.  That's the first good sign of a restaurant.  But
despite the bustling dining room, we were quickly served drinks.  We
ordered some egg rolls for Rodney, then glancing over the menu, the
beef rice noodle soup caught my eye.  "Is it spicy?  I'm kind of just
looking to flush my system here," I said to the waiter gesturing at my
nose.  "It can be as spicy as you want, you can just add chili oil,"
he said directing my attention to a small jar and spoon set out on the
table.  According to the menu, the beef rice noodle soup had slices of
steak and chunks of beef tendon, which honestly sounded so weird that
I had to try it.  Ten minutes later, the waiter lowered what looked
like bucket of soup in front of me.  Steam was billowing from the pale
yellow broth, and giving it quick stir showed thin, delicate slices of
beef, green onions, and what looked like a birds nest of beautiful
white rice noodles.

After cutting up Rodney's food, I beckoned for the jar of chili oil,
and generously dabbed my soup with the miniature spoon.  The deep red
oil beaded and rolled around the surface.

The soup tasted glorious.  My nose started to run, which garnered some
teasing from the table, but it was exactly what I needed.  As my nose
ran, I could feel my sinuses flood with fresh air as the beef broth
warmed me from the inside out.

Digging around with some chopsticks, I found a small chunk of meat,
but it was ghostly white.  "Ah, this must be the beef tendon," I said
holding it up.  Marissa looked at me in horror as I closed my eyes and
chewed it.  It tasted like a fatty piece of gristle, only it melted in
my mouth without chewing.

In short, /Pho Thai/ was an experience.  And as far as meals go, it
was probably the highlight of my week.  Maybe I'm biased, wanting to
prove my new restaurant instincts as worthy.

We returned home and Grandma Mary visited.  She dropped off some
Lincoln logs for Rodney, and she gave me a pair of warm rubber soled
socks.  "Are they too small?" she asked with concern as I squeezed my
big feet into the fuzzy sheath.  "Nah, they're awesome!  Look at me, I
look like a sherpa!" I happily replied.

We said farewell to Grandma Mary, and Rodney, Marissa, and I retreated
into our bedroom for a long afternoon nap.  The beef noodle soup was
still resting comfortably in my stomach, and to not capitalize on the
lunch with a nap would feel like sacrilege.

The rest of the day was pretty low key.  We ordered a pizza, and after
putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I watched animal planet and played
cards until we couldn't stay awake.  It was a fun way to unwind after
a long trip.

After seeing family on both sides across three states, we're tired,
but our heart is full, and we're feeling proud to have finished our
hectic holiday week in one piece.  I'm thinking about my couch, a bowl
of soup, and my dogs.

We have a day to recoup, then Marissa's sister and - as of yesterday -
her brand new fiance will be staying with us until New Year's Eve.  As
Marissa and I played cards last night, we planned out some meals, and
I think the Recker kitchen is really going to bring the heat.  Justin,
if you're reading this, you had better come hungry.  We're going to
test the limits of what you claim is an iron-cast bottomless stomach.

Thanks for reading, everyone.  Wherever you are, hope you find time
today to recoup after the holidays.  Even if you have to recoup in the
car.  There's still something comforting about an empty, cold highway,
isn't there?

*** 2019-12-29 Sunday oh the humanity

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning, to my regret, I think I have
officially caught a cold.  I have been on an impressive streak - I
think the last time I was sick was sometime last spring, and as we
were going to bed last night Marissa consoled me, "You're not sick,
your throat is probably just dry from Minnesota, and you're tired from
driving."  That was plausible, but this morning I look like an ad for
cold medicine.  But even though my nose is runny and my throat is a
little scratchy, I'm actually feeling pretty high energy today.
Rodney and I are currently hanging out in the dining room.  He's at
the dining room table picking at some cheerios and apple fruit bars,
weighing aloud to himself the pros and cons and watching Daniel Tiger
over Blue's Clues, and I'm at the computer writing.  This morning,
we're listening to Switchfoot, which, as Marissa and I both agreed, we
need more of in the background at all times.  There shall be more
Switchfoot this week, and there shall be more Switchfoot in 2020.

We hit the road sometime around 9:30, and after taking a generous stop
in the Dells for some Taco Bell, we finally arrived home in the
afternoon.  I wish I could say we felt immediately refreshed and
excited to see our house after being on the road, but the afternoon
sort of spiraled out of control.  After pulling into the driveway, I
suddenly realized that I had a really bad back spasm coming on and
retreated up into the bedroom to writhe in pain.  Marissa finished
unpacking and left me home to go pick up our new modem to replace, as
the astute reader might remember, the one I fried before leaving for
Minnesota.

I remained at home in our bedroom trying to lie as still as possible,
despite the spidering, shooting, dulling pain wrapping around my
shoulders, back, and arms.  The back spasms, as I learned last summer,
are a symptom of cubital tunnel syndrome.  The nerves in my arm get
constricted and angry, and it results in a nasty hissy fit of nerve
pain.  Much like getting sick, I haven't had one of these in a while
either.  I thought I had cracked the code once I started sleeping with
a neck pillow and braces around my elbows.

Eventually, with the help of a hot shower, the spasms subsided and
Marissa returned home with the new modem.  She stood in our bedroom
complaining about her experience picking up the dogs as I wrestled and
grunted the replacement modem into position on my shelf.  "I think
these people might be idiots," Marissa explained.  "After I paid, they
just flung the door open and let the dogs run out.  They weren't even
wearing leashes.  Rodney was going crazy, and it took me like fifteen
minutes to get their harnesses on."  Marissa cracked a smile as she
vented.  "And the girl was just standing there watching me."

Marissa put Rodney down for a nap, then I took the car to Hy-Vee.  I
love shopping with Rodney, but I was grateful to have the car by
myself.  As Justin and Megan are staying with us through the weekend,
this would be a bigger trip.  I stocked up on chicken legs, potatoes,
kale, and ground beef.  I packed the car and headed home.  Both
Marissa and Rodney were asleep, so I turned on some music and readied
the kitchen.  Even tired from the road, it felt great to work in my
kitchen again.  About an hour later, I had hot leek and potato soup
ready.  I kept things simple - leeks, garlic, potatoes, cream, and
butter.  And taking a tip from Chef John, I blanched the leeks, which
made the soup taste and look much cleaner.  Apparently, dirt and rocks
can get trapped between the leaves.  And if you think about it, it
makes sense.  The leaves come apart at the top, and almost look like a
funnel.  I also reeled in joy busting out my immersion blender for the
first time.

The three of us slumped around the table, quietly wolfing down soup.
Sanity returned to my stomach.  We stayed around the table for another
hour chatting about the trip and the upcoming weekend.  Marissa wasn't
feeling great either.  The taco bell we had in the Dells made her
sick, and after talking about it, I was starting to suspect it may
have triggered my back spasm.  Between the spasms and bad taco bell, I
joked about how next morning's blog entry would just be three words -
"oh the humanity."  Maybe even in the style of a grieving Teddy
Roosevelt, "the light has gone out of my life."

Marissa put Rodney to bed, and after practicing Dutch on the couch, I
returned to the kitchen.  I prepared a big bowl of raw kale, apple,
grapefruit salad.  You know how normally you're supposed to keep the
wet and dry ingredients in a salad separate until you serve?  The nice
thing about kale is that it gets more and more delicious as it sits in
the dressing, and that discovery has led me to a good salad hack.  I
found you can make more kale salad at one time if you make it in
layers - first some kale, then grapefruit & dressing to help way it
down, and finally followed by apple slices and sunflower seeds.  After
shaking it, you can start again with an extra inch of headroom.

I'm really starting to fall in love with kale.  Last night as I was
chopping, cutting, and tossing the kale leaves, I was suddenly really
taken with how delicious it looks in pretty much any situation.
Whether it's ripped, whole, fried, dry, wet or boiled, kale doesn't
have a bad look.  It always looks delicious, doesn't it?

So that was Saturday.  Driving and bad Taco Bell made the day take a
downward spiral, but with the help of homemade soup and kale, we
rallied, and luckily I had more to write about this morning than just
"oh the humanity."

And speaking of Sunday, today Rodney and I are hanging out at home
while Marissa takes Ziggy to an agility trial.  Rodney and I are going
to watch the Bears game while I make saucijzenbroodjes and continue to
ready the house for company.  And hopefully I can continue to keep
this damn cold at bay.

Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-12-30 Monday moon, champagne, and taco t-rex's

Dear Journal,

/Goedemorgen/, everyone.  I hope this Monday finds you well.  This
morning, I'm just about as cozy as possible, and it took a bit of work
to get here.  Justin and Megan are sleeping in the living room, and
fearing that Ziggy would jump on the cot or the couch and start
uncontrollably kissing them, I had to carry her through the living
room.  After unlocking the gate and tip-toeing by with Ziggy on my
hip, I brewed a whole pot of coffee, started a load of dishes, then in
batches returned some coffee travelers and the dogs back into our
bedroom and shut the door.

So after feeding both dogs and taking two hushed trips up the stairs,
I'm back in my bedroom with the door closed, and the dogs are back in
bed with momma.  And seeing the empty bottle of Southern Comfort in
our kitchen, I have a feeling that Megan and Justin would appreciate
the extra care in not waking them up too early.

/Sip/.  I'm hanging in there, readers.  But I'm not going to lie to
you, I'm kind of a pathetic site this morning.  My nose is running.
I've been permanently wearing the same hoodie and pair of sweats for
two days.  Today, the name of the game is getting through Monday.  I
have only one day to work before I take off again for New Year's Eve
and New Year's Day (both apostrophes are intentional).  I'm working
from home, in an effort to keep my cold away from the rest of the team
at work, and they appreciated that.  "I'm working from home too,"
replied my coworker in our team slack.  "Using Recker's all holidays
toothbrush really backfired on me."  He was joking, of course.  For
all intents and purposes, my coworker Alex has his own toothbrush.

Have you ever seen the movie Moon?  Without spoiling too much of the
movie, Sam Rockwell plays two versions of an astronaut sent to live on
the moon and serve a seven year stint managing some kind of moon rock
harvesting station.  There is a version of him in the movie when he
first got to the moon - healthy, stubborn, and restless - and a
version of him at the end of his seven year stint - sick & weak, but
patient and persistent.

Last night as I was drifting off to sleep, I pictured two versions of
myself.  One of them was beginning 2019.  He was energetic and
optimistic, but had a lot of unsolved issues with anger, and it made
him a bit restless.  But he was just discovering how good it felt to
cook and clean, and he was eager build that into his personality.  The
other version of me was ending 2019 - sniffling, sneezing, still
exhausted from traveling, but more patient and persistent.  Still
getting the dishes washed, clothes folded, food on the table - still
getting the job done.  I think at this point I've spoon-fed you the
metaphor.

But I'm hanging in there.  I'm actually looking forward to this
evening - we've promised Justin and Megan that we'd make a campfire
outside, and we've promised Rodney that we would take Justin and Megan
bowling.  And as long as we've got Dayquil and Nyquil stocked in the
medicine cabinet, I'm game for both.

Yesterday turned out to be a pretty good day.  Marissa left in the
late morning for agility, and Rodney and I hung around the house.  I
played the Bears game in the dining room while Rodney sat at his train
table, occasionally strolling into the kitchen to check on what I was
doing.  I baked a big batch of saucijzenbroodjes, then heated up some
soup for lunch.  By the time Rodney went down for a nap in the
afternoon, the Bears had eeked out a victory over the Vikings, which
aside from nominally sparing us of shame of a losing season (we ended
8-8), amounted to nothing.  In fact, the Vikings played their second
string most of the time, treating this as an unofficial bye week
before their turn in the playoffs.  And that made everything good the
Bears did feel gross, whether it was Monty's pile-moving touchdown,
Kwit's safety, or Pineiro's game winning field goal.  So congrats us -
we barely beat the Viking's reserve of backup players, most of which
hadn't set foot on the field all season.

After the game, I tried to take a nap, but it didn't stick.  Rodney
was thumping around and rambling to himself in his room, and it was
too amusing to sleep.  I finally called it quits around 4:30 and
returned to the kitchen to prep dinner.  Justin and Megan rolled in
around five, and after greeting them at the door and setting them up
with some drinks and broodjes, I got Rodney from upstairs.  He handled
most of the entertaining while I finished prepping dinner.  From what
I could hear, he took Megan and Justin through an itemized recap his
new toys.

Shortly after Marissa returned home with Ziggy, we ate dinner.  Kale
salad with Greek lemon-garlic chicken & potatoes.  We also shared a
bottle of champagne to celebrate Megan and Justin's engagement.  I
made them wait until Marissa got home before they told the story.
"Marissa will know what questions to ask," I jeered.  "If you tell it
to me, it's just gonna be a lot of 'OK then what happened'."

After dinner, we moved to the family room for what will probably be
the last Christmas present opening ceremony of the Christmas season.
Megan and Justin got Rodney some toys from both his current favorite
TV shows, and a geode.  Using a tupperware lid and a hammer, Marissa
cracked the geode in half, revealing its shimmery center - a Christmas
gift that's also a memorable activity.  Pretty good, right?  Megan and
Justin bought us a Taco T-rex (a plastic dinosaur that props of tacos
while you dress them), as well as a cookbook and a French chef's hat.
Even though I was all done cooking for the night, I still wore the hat
while I finished cleaning.  I have to admit, I felt distinguished.

So that's what I got today.  As I was writing this entry, making it
further into this cup of coffee, I think I'm finally starting to perk
up.  I think I finally have the mental energy to bust out my laptop
and work.  If we're still pretending 2019 is the movie /Moon/, with
only two days to go, it's safe to say I'm on my belly wrapped in a
space blanket, inching closer and closer to the escape pod.

Hope you have a great day, everyone.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2019-12-31 Tuesday sneezing, bowling, and joker

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  To set the
scene here, the smell of bacon & slightly burnt butter lingers in the
kitchen.  Breakfast debris litters the dining room table.  Justin and
Megan can be overheard in our living room chatting and packing up
their things.  Marissa sits slumped over still in her chair from
Breakfast, glaring at me with tired puppy dog eyes.  "Are you ready
for errand day?" I tease.

Despite being on the third day of my cold, I'm actually feeling pretty
good.  I've entered into the very silly chain-sneezing stage of
things.  And can I be honest?  Sneezing is pretty fun.  I'm not
talking about the polite kind where you muffle it in your jacket or
elbow, then as obligated by society, you have to convince everyone
with Joaquin Phoenix acting that absolutely nothing came out of your
nose.  I'm talking about the kind of sneezes where you are by yourself
in your bedroom, or maybe about to jump into the shower, and not only
can you sneeze without covering your mouth, but you can also put your
back into it.  I guess In Rodney's case, where he hasn't yet learned
about the social stigma of runny dangling boogers, that's just about
every sneeze for him.  And you have to envy that.  This weekend, I'm
also thinking about Justin and Megan.  The three of us Reckers have
been practically sneezing all over the place, and I hate the thought
of helping this stupid little cold propagate.  If they make it out of
this house without a cold, you can count me amazed.

OK, there's probably an unspoken rule where you can spend more than a
paragraph talking about boogers, so let's transition, shall we?
Yesterday was a pretty great day.  I worked from home and kept things
pretty mellow.  Marissa took Megan and Justin to her dog agility
seminar in the afternoon while Rodney screwed around in the living
room.  To his advantage, I spaced out and didn't remember his 2:30 nap
until 3:30.  By the time I glanced up from my laptop, Rodney was
standing aimlessly in the living room wearing my headphones, his
construction goggles, and holding his Nerf gun.

Rodney slept, and soon Marissa returned home with her kin.  After
making a quick run to Hy-Vee to stock up on breakfast supplies, we
went out to Mr. Brew's.  That was the place we selected after a
tumultuous deliberation on eat out places.  Picking a place to eat is
challenging because Marissa and I seemingly have a horror story for
just about every restaurant around us, and even more so if we're
talking about the restaurants that are actually open on Monday
evening.  But Mr. Brew's is a solid choice, as long as I steer clear
of their /Peanut Buster Burger/ - which I did.  We finished eating and
left just as their trivia night started.

Next stop was bowling.  We parked at the /Dream Lanes/, got some
shoes, and started chucking balls.  We only had time for one game
before Rodney's bed time, but sharing in Rodney's enthusiasm each time
he knocked over even a single pin made for a full experience.  I also
must have played the best game of my life last night.  For someone who
can barely bowl over 80 most nights, you can imagine how surprised I
was to bowl a 116 (citation pending, I was actually too excited to
remember my exact score).  Throughout the game, Justin and I enjoyed a
Spotted Cow from the bar, which if you step back and judge fairly, is
probably the best beer to bowl with.

On the way out, Auntie Megan slipped Rodney some change so he could
buy a toy from the vending machine.  The first toy that came out was
an LA Chargers plastic football.  He glanced at the toy, and
immediately put it back in the chute, moving to the next machine with
two more quarters financed by his kind auntie.  This time, it yielded
a sticky hand, and that was good enough to leave.

When we got home, Rodney went to bed, and the four of us crashed on
the couch with some snacks to watch the rest of Joker.  Having an hour
left to watch before turning in for the night yesterday, we were all
pretty pleased with the movie.  "That's wasn't bad," I said offering a
passing review.  "The love story felt a little wedged in, but Joaquin
kind of carries the movie."

Well picking up where we left off, the movie took a real nose dive.
As the movie marched on with long gratuitous establishing shots of
Joaquin dancing around weirdly in his apartment (which was also a
blatant rip-off of taxi driver), the plot holes abounded, and then at
the end of the movie (spoiler coming), they hit you with the old /he's
insane and most of this probably wasn't real/ trick.  The film
continues to meander until the climax, where Joaquin magically incites
an angry, murderous riot with a stammering speech that sounded cobbled
together from unrelated /Bullet for My Valentine/ lyrics - the kind of
stuff you'd write on your notebook in ninth grade with a really dark
black gel pen.  Not to mention he somehow got on the Late Show by
appearing in a viral video.  It's the 80s.  There's no YouTube,
Facebook, or Twitter.  Are we supposed to believe the VHS tape of him
flopping at a comedy club was copied and distributed so rampantly that
he was asked to appear on the Late Show?

To sum up, /Joker/ was a bad movie, and it wasn't even bad in the fun
way.  We rounded off the night by watching an episode of Seinfeld.  I
picked Season Nine's /The Merv Griffin Show/, which weirdly enough fit
with the theme of the Joker.

So that's what I got today.  Going forward, our New Year's Even will
be finally putting the house back together, taking down Christmas
lights, and hopefully watching a better movie than /Joker/.  And who
knows, maybe I'll even take a shower.  Caught up the hustle of
traveling and hospitality, I've missed a few days and I've gotten to
the point where I'm afraid to take my yellow beanie off.

I hope you all have a wonderful New Year's eve.  I suppose I should
take some time to reflect on all the journal entries I've completed.
Expect that soon - but not now.  Cleaning now - thinking & reflecting
later.

* 2020
  
** 2020-01 January

*** 2020-01-01 Wednesday 2019
Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to the new year.  This morning, we
slept in, and over a cup of coffee Marissa and I planned our day,
which will be errands, projects, and leftovers.  But before diving
into the mundane routine of a new year, I wanted to take extra time to
reflect on 2019.  And what better way to reflect on the year than with
snippets from old journal entries?

Even though my first public blog post was in July ([[https://www.alexrecker.com/2019-07-02.html][party, dumplings,
and blogging]]), I had actually been journaling privately since April.
This is my first actual journal entry.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Sunday, April 14 2019

Hey Journal,

Today while cleaning up my sister's old laptop I discovered the ruins
of an ambition project I started to write one thousand words a day.
The funny thing is I remember telling everyone that I wanted to do
this, but I didn't remember I only made it five days.  Well today I
set out on the same venture.  Accept hopefully I'm older, wiser, and
just a little more patient.  Plus I have a better system now.  I have
to admit, the writing got a little whiney, which is perhaps why I
tweaked the rules to just let me write as much as I want.  Short and
sweet.

Tonight I tried making gnocchi.  Damn Gordon Ramsey makes everything
look so easy, I think it might be witchcraft.  Eh, I'm going to rally,
I'm bound for a gnocchi redemption this week.  I'll let you know how
it goes.
#+END_QUOTE

My private entries resemble the public ones.  Sometimes they were a
little more stream of conscious, crass, and unfiltered, but for the
most part they recap my day and reflect on major things coming up -
just like I presently do every morning.  I even start off most of them
with 'Dear Journal'.  Here's my comments on that from May 24, 2019.
Journaling has always been a part of my life in some way.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I find it funny that I still have the habit of opening each entry with
"Dear Journal".  That's straight out of Doug's (the cartoon show)
playbook, and I've been doing that much longer than I've been using a
computer.  I used to write occasional journal entries in this crummy
little notebook I bought from our church bookstore.  I drew weird
bubble letters all over the front of it with sharpie.  At the time, I
was envious of Kelly's journal.  She bought a /diary/, you see.  This
was engineered for privacy.  It had a lock on the front with a little
key that hung on her backpack or something.  It didn't matter that the
key was literally useless, I just liked that she had a book that was
outwardly and visibly private.  But boys weren't supposed to have
diaries - they had /journals/.  So there's a little antiquated 1990's
gender stereotype to amuse you, fresh from the tap of my memory.
#+END_QUOTE

Spring of 2019 was a cleaning year.  Marissa and I finally got a
handle on keeping things organized, and part of that came out of
reorganizing our kitchen.  And now having a clean kitchen to work in
every day, cooking became a much bigger deal to me.  A lot of my
entries our about cooking recipes.  This entry from April 28, 2019 is
basically an itemized dissection of a failed attempt at Chicago deep
dish pizza.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I have some thoughts for how I can improve upon
[deep dish pizza].  Namely:

1. I put way to much work into the dough last time (/work/ in both
   senses of the word actually, I didn't realize pretty much any
   dough with corn meal would work, and I kneaded it for too long,
   making it very bready).
2. I didn't roll out the crust thin enough.  Even though the pan is
   deep, it should be mostly cheese and sauce, the crust should only
   be less than a half inch.
3. I was afraid to trim the excess crust.  Not wanting to waste crust,
   I just balled up the excess around the top, which produce a
   hilariously thick crust.
4. I attempted to make pizza sauce, which did not work.  It was too
   watery and looked like marinara, which leaked out of the pizza as
   soon as the first slice was cut.
#+END_QUOTE

And here's another entry from June 28 where I anguish about my bad
jumbalaya.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Yeterday's jumbalaya was a bit of a disgrace.  Jumbalaya is a tricky
thing.  What's supposed to happen, I believe, is that the rice is
supposed to cook and soak up all the chicken stock, which is what
turns it from a big pot of soup to a pot of fluffy, soft jumbalaya.  I
used brown rice, as recommended in the recipe, but I didn't get it on
the pot until about 6:15, and by 7:00 it was still just a bit
under-cooked.  I added the shrimp and cranked the heat, hoping to make
up for lost time in the last five minutes, but that over-cooked the
shrimp and still didn't finish the rice.
#+END_QUOTE

Having dinner on the table at 7:00PM sharp has always been a big deal
to me.  And that's become easier.  Since then I've developed more
cooking common sense and better technique.  Hitting the Recker Family
7PM dinner standard isn't so hard anymore, but when it used to be a
big source of anger and frustration.  If I was still in the kitchen at
7:05 PM, I was probably gritting my teeth and bottling up an outburst.

Learning to cook forced me to learn patience, and learning patience
forced me to deal with my anger.  I started keeping an anger journal.
I spent a lot of time trying to find patterns and commonalities behind
outbursts.  Here's a snippet from June 20, 2019.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I think I'm beginning to see a pattern forming with my anger.  There's
plenty of entries in my anger log that show that I have outbursts when
things don't work right - like when I'm fixing code to do something,
or a recipe isn't working out, or when I can't set up a computer to do
something very easily.  It even happens when I can't beat a video
game.  I realized this last night while I was cooking dinner.  I
couldn't get the potatoes and the kale to mix, so I started to rage
and lash out.  I blamed Marissa for buying the wrong potatoes (even
though I told her they were fine the day before).  It made me realize
that I seriously lack patience.  When something doesn't work well the
first time through, rather than working through the issues, it seems I
lash out and blame other things.  When I can't immediately get code to
work, I blame the idiot upstream developers.  When I can't immediately
beat a video game, I blame lazy gaming companies and poor level
design.  When I can't get someone's computer working for them, I blame
greedy software companies for making their licensing too paranoid and
convoluted.
#+END_QUOTE

In the summer, Marissa and I took a vacation to Vancouver.  I decided
to take a break from journaling.  That vacation was my longest break
from writing since I started in April, and I regretted it.  This was
from June 18th, after we returned home.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I have to say, it feels good to be writing in the ol' journal again.
While I was cleaning up my documents yesterday, I couldn't help but be
impressed with how magnificent my single file journal looks now that
it spans three months.  But then again, the several days missing from
June bum me out a bit.

Here's a personal challenge.  Next time I take a trip, I need to keep
journaling.  It may take me out of the feeling of deep relaxation that
comes with vacation, but I bet there would be some benefits.  Maybe
entering back into the real world wouldn't be so hard.  Maybe I would
remember more sights and sounds and capture them in a record more
effectively.  That's definitely true, because now all I have is
pictures and a few stories.
#+END_QUOTE

This was the first time it became clear to me that journaling was no
longer just "something to stick to", but it actually enhanced my
ability to reflect on things.

I also learned the importance of focus in writing.  I'm a great
focuser, but my problem is that I don't always focus on what's in
front of me.  This is from July 1 - the day before I started
publishing my journal entries.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Ah - I'm having some foggy brain this morning.  I keep taking breaks
from writing this journal entry to debug the build.  I guess I had a
surge of ambition, but I'm having a hard time focusing on other
things.  It's difficult to find a balance in things when you get
excited about a coding project.  For the longest time, I used to work
as long as I wanted, especially when Marissa and I weren't married yet
and I'd spend long nights in an apartment alone.  I used to stay up
until three in the morning writing code.  I would keep writing until I
felt like it was completely finished.
#+END_QUOTE

Some mornings it's hard to write, and I have to take five minutes to
actively clear my head.  This year, I've learned that focus is a
powerful tool, but it's not a super power.  It's a muscle, and I think
you have to flex it sometimes.

At this point, I've kept my family waiting for long enough.  Rodney is
dressed and ready to kick of 2020 with a family trip to Denny's and
some errands.  And so to conclude this entry, I'd like to take a
minute to thank the readers of this publication.  Making these journal
entries public had to have been my favorite decision of 2019.  I feel
more connected to the people around me, especially when an entry
inspires someone I haven't talked to in a while to send me a DM on
twitter on send me an email.  It's fun luring people out of the social
woodwork and carrying on personal side conversations.  And if you
choose to silently read and remain anonymous, that's just fine too.  I
like to think we're still connected.

Happy new year, everyone.  Hope you have a wonderful Wednesday, and a
great 2020.

*** 2020-01-02 Thursday nesting, folding dirty laundry, and our awful basement

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  This morning,
it feels good to get back into the swing of things - quietly sneaking
downstairs to make coffee, showering, and digging clean clothes out of
my laundry bin.  We've entered into the 'early morning nuisance' stage
of this cold, so although it's not pleasant, it's definitely
surmountable.

/Sip/.  Even though I'm a little tired this morning, I'm feeling
pretty good.  Yesterday, Marissa and I spent most of the evening
attacking chores and projects.  Speaking for both of us, I think we're
about 80% caught up with our chores.  Looking back, January has always
been kind of a cleaning & project month for us, and with new baby
Miles coming in the late spring, I expect to really step it up with
the help of nesting instincts.  This year, we're testing out a new
three column whiteboard & index card system, and if it works out,
you'll hear more details later.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  Of all times and places to kick off
the new decade, our family chose 12:30 at Denny's, and to our
surprise, it was a pretty good experience.  Our pancakes and coffee
actually came out so quickly, we found it startling.  Sitting at
Denny's, we talked through the handful of errands we had to run -
Target, Hobby Lobby, Office Max, and Bed Bath and Beyond.  Aided by a
healthy American grand slam breakfast, we cruised through all of them
and returned home in the afternoon.  We fixed Rodney a pre-nap PB&J,
set up our new project board, then took a short break.  Marissa caught
a nap on the couch while I played some Splinter Cell.  The rest of the
evening was leftovers, bedtime, and work.

Here's a little moment of Zen from yesterday.  Before putting Rod to
bed, I noticed his backup sheets were in the hamper, so I moved his
dirty laundry bin to the hallway, then changed Rodney into some
pajamas.  Some minutes later, we were in bed reading a story, and
Marissa wandered in to see what we were doing.  From the corner of my
eye, I saw her folding laundry in front of Rodney's closet.  Finally
after about five minutes of reading Rodney's Bible story, I earmarked
the page and looked up - "is that Rodney's laundry?" I asked.  Marissa
dutifully nodded.  I grimaced.  "That bin in the hallway was dirty
clothes," I said.  Marissa stopped mid-folding to think.  "I was
wondering why just /some/ of these pants were still wet," she said as
my grimace widened.  She reluctantly picked out all the soiled clothes
she had put away.

Later that night, we found ourselves in the basement putting away
Christmas lights.  Marissa had four seasonal decoration bins total -
three for Christmas and one for fall, and she insisted that all four
should fit on the shelf in the back basement.  I claimed only three
would fit, and one would have to spend the summer on the floor, so she
joined be downstairs to educate me.  As she was grunting, pinning a
large tupperware bin between her hip and the water heater all while
her neck crooked to avoid hitting her head on a cold metal duct, I
broke out in laughter.  "Our basement gives me anxiety," I said aloud,
quoting something she admitted earlier in the evening while we were
making home project cards.  The box finally slid into place, and
Marissa and I clambered through boxes, sawdust, and under the
hazardous low ceiling.  We passed by the washing machine, which was
violently shaking and had take a lunge forward off its flimsy wheels.
Marissa and I broke out into more laughter.  "This is the worst
basement ever," she said.  I nodded - "it's literally a nightmare.
Our house is built on a foundation of anxiety," I pontificated as we
trudged up the stairs.  

Later that night, I promised to dedicate my entire journal entry to
how terrible our basement was.  It probably wouldn't take an entire
morning entry to get my point across, but most weeks it really does
seem like all the unfinished work pools downstairs like a swamp of
procrastination.  There's a fifty foot ethernet cable spooled in the
corner.  The washer and dryer shake and wander away from their
designated position.  There's an ad hoc packaging station set up in
the corner with empty card board boxes, and we've started referring to
it as /the shanty town/.  Marissa's resin tent stands in the center,
suspended from the ceiling with tape and string in a way that both of
us have forgotten how to ever do again.

I feel hopeful for our basement.  I'm hopeful for how productive we
feel in January, and I'm hopeful that with the nesting instincts,
together we'll rage against our least favorite room in the house and
turn it into something we're proud of.

So that's what I got today.  In a few minutes, I'll jump out of my
room and catch a bus to work, where my new laptop is hopefully
waiting.  Setting up a new laptop is kind of exciting.  It's a chance
to wipe the slate clean, forever leaving the forgotten programs and
deprectated configuration files on my old laptop.  And it will feel
good to wipe the slate - who doesn't like that?  I unintentionally
picked a great time to start fresh, the spring cleaning vibes are
strong with this month, and I hope they produce some good results.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today, and that you march into your
basement, shed, garage, or whatever room gives you the most anxiety
with the cleaning fury of two nesting parents.

*** 2020-01-03 Friday colds, computer parts, and dinner failures

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday to everyone out there.  We're
now officially done with the first work week of 2020, so give yourself
a pat on the back if you're out there and you made it.  It's not the
first complete week of the year.  For me, it was barely a half week,
and it was a struggle to get through.  Marissa and I are still
afflicted with colds, and mine has even made a bit of a resurgence.
This cold is like a Bruno Mars song - the moment I said "hey I thing
we're all done with this", there it is on the radio again back in full
force.  So I'm feeling a little tired this morning, my nose is runny,
but I'm still showered, dressed, and ready to rock.

I hit the chores pretty hard yesterday.  I attacked another project on
our board, this time gutting my closet of unneeded IT supplies.  The
other day, Rodney was playing in my bin, and I lost track of what he
was doing, and just about every little plug, dongle and cable was
dumped out and scattered on the floor.  I love it when he plays in my
stuff - I think that's important - but usually I intervene before it
gets to the /just dump everything out/ phase of playtime.  But rather
than spending a half hour meticulously putting everything back into
place, I just crammed it all willy nilly into the bin and decided to
go through it later.

So last night, I finally had time to sort it all out.  Ironically, the
process of cleaning out my bin looked a lot like what Rodney was
doing - dump everything out.  It took me about an hour to sort, label,
and bag all the spare parts, and it felt great.  Luckily, I set up a
pretty good system for organizing it sometime last year, and the
system continues to work.

In other news, last night's dinner was a spectacular failure, so for
your amusement, let me take you through it.  Picture this - the goal
was a half sandwich and a cup of soup.  Right off the bat, it sounds a
little lunchy and light, but realistically I just wanted to make a
simple soup with a more involved sandwich and serve them together.  I
went with the classic Monte Cristo and a butternut squash soup.

The Monte Cristo is basically just a ham and cheese melted onto french
toast.  It's assembled on some whitebread, dipped into a savory
batter, and fried nice and crispy in butter.  As I was mixing the
improvised batter and assembling the sandwich, I started to feel
pretty good about it.  Everything smelled great, and miraculously I
had managed to get a squash peeled, sliced, roasted, and simmering in
soup base by 6:30, so I was looking great for time.  But I made a
critical mistake.  In all the videos I watched, best practices
recommended toasting the bread before dipping it in the batter.  This
would make it drier, more prone to soak up batter, and more likely to
come out crispy and delicious.  But I didn't do this step.  Instead, I
dipped the soft white bread right into the eggs and took them straight
to cast iron.  It made a convincing sizzle at first, but as it cooked,
it just started to look like regular soft and plushy french toast.

Meanwhile on the soup front, the squash tenderized beautifully, and
after hitting it with the immersion blender, the consistency was
velvety and satisfying.  Here is where I made my first mistake, I
dumped in a whole container of whipping cream.  "This won't affect the
consistency too much," I thought.  "It's just cream."  Well, Alex,
cream is a liquid too, and adding the whole carton of cream thinned
the soup, and the result looked like a weird orange latte that frankly
didn't taste like squash anymore.  So with the soup ruined in a swift
motion, my hope was on the sandwiches.

I had decided to fry all three at the same time, so if no crisypness
was happening before, it definitely wasn't happening now.  With the
pan crowded with three sandwiches, the brown color was there from the
butter, but the cheese barely melted.  I dusted the wet, warm
sandwiches with powdered sugar - a little too much.  Ah, and the icing
on the cake was the soup garnish.  "I'll jazz it up with a few
sunflower seeds," I thought.  I sprinkled some seeds onto Marissa's
soup.  And you know how denser things always float to the bottom of a
liquid?  The soup was so thin that the seeds plopped to the bottom.  A
nice little surprise waiting at the bottom of the bowl if you're brave
enough to finish it.

So sandwich and soup night was a learning failure.  But if we're
honest, it was doomed from the start.  A Monte Cristo sandwich is
much "brunchy-er" than I expected, and it made for a weird pairing
with a fall soup - or squash flavored milk.

Even though dinner didn't turn out great, it was still a fun exercise.
I think the next stage of learning to cook is starting with ideas
instead of explicit recipes.  There was probably nothing that would
have saved the sandwiches, but being the only one to taste the soup
before I ruined it, the soup was promising.  "I'll eat anything weird,
as long as you're learning and experimenting," said Marissa commending
me.

/Sip/.  Busy week.  I'm really looking forward to the weekend.  It
sounds ridiculous that I'd be tired from only working two three days
this week, but my body doesn't lie.  Tonight, we're hanging around the
house & making a pizza.  Tomorrow, Rodney got us excited about going
bowling.  "There should be more bowling in our lives" is the closest
thing our family has to a New Year's Resolution this year, so we're
putting it to work on the first weekend of the year.

That's what I got today.  Take care of yourself today.  You probably
got ambitions for the year, and if you're like me, you're in a hurry
to make 2020 as cool of a year as it sounds, but let's make a
resolution now to take our time and let 2020 develop it's own mood.

Have a great Friday, everyone.

*** 2020-01-04 Saturday french toast, rodney stories, and back problems

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  Hope you're feeling good,
and ready to make the most of the weekend - or not, that's just fine
too.  We chose to sleep in a bit this morning, and I spent the morning
drinking coffee, listening to music, and making French toast.  Let me
tell you, every time I make French toast with my little nonstick pan,
I fall a little more in love with nonstick.  I don't know why I was so
against the idea at first, but it's clear to me now that nonstick is
the apex predator of frying things in butter.  Cast iron has worked
fine more me in the past, but it takes too long to heat up, and by the
time it's hot, it just wants to keep getting hotter and will likely
burn your butter.

So this morning, we were all sitting around the table eating breakfast
and chatting.  To our great amusement, we sat for a while in silence
just watching Rodney wolf down four strips of bacon.  He's hitting a
growth spurt - we've noticed he's saying newer phrases, a little
better at talking, and starting to eat more and ask for different
foods.

Here's a funny Rodney story that I forgot to share.  On New Year's
day, I was getting him out of bed and doing my best to explain New
Year's, resolutions, and what the holiday means.  As I was getting him
ready for the day, I posed the question "Do you have a New Year's
resolution?"  Rodney paused for a long time, and I started to get
excited, thinking he would have a meaningful, thoughtful answer.
"Peanut butter and jelly," he said breaking his thought.  "Cut in
triangles."  I ask Rodney a lot of questions, but I've started to
suspect that when he doesn't understand what I'm talking about, he
just assumes I'm asking him what he wants for lunch.

Let's talk about some more Rodney silliness, shall we?  Last night, we
decided to watch some [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ItMpKIxXwlw][Dude Perfect Trick Shots]] while Marissa was
cutting Rodney's hair.  He really took to the idea, and afterwards he
spent a half hour running around doing /trick shocks/.  "HOCKEY TRICK
SHOCK," he'd yell as he'd run over to grab his tiny plastic hockey
stick and ball.  He's wind up and swing, knocking the ball a few feet,
then take off in a circle with his arms extended yelling /LEEEEEET'S
GOOOOOO/.  Marissa and I have been regular watchers of Dude Perfect
for a while, and it was only a matter of time before it became a
family affair.  If you're uninitiated, I'd check it out.  They're the
kind of guys that you wish you could hate, but they're so likable and
silly, and you can't help but envy that their day job is pretty much
just playing with Nerf Guns, jet skis, and ping pong balls.

/Sip/.  The coffee is good today.  This morning I brewed a separate
pot of that tequila infused coffee I got for Christmas.  It packs a
pleasant caffeine buzz, and the aftertaste of tequila in the morning
is actually kind of mysterious and intriguing.

So yesterday was a pretty great day.  I spent the morning quietly
writing, wrapping up my work for the week, and putting the final
touches on my new work laptop.  I finally got upgraded to one of those
Macbook Pros with the fancy touch bar.  I use my own separate
keyboard, so it really doesn't bother me.  Actually, the flickering
touch bar makes me look busier when I work.  When I type, it flashes
word suggestions on the screen, and I like how the brightness and
volume buttons morph into a slider when you press them.  I know longer
have an actual power button, which is a bummer.  Especially since the
alternative is apparently just mashing my trackpad and enter key until
the computer decides to wake up.  It's never even clear to me if it's
turned off or just sleeping.  Who asks for these things?  If you ask
me, turning a piece of equipment on and off is the most fundamental
interaction.  Why do newer computers treat this like an afterthought?

Yesterday afternoon got a little rough.  Continuing work after lunch,
my back started to get a little tight, and I feared a back spasm was
coming on.  I drank a glass of water, then retreated into the Ki Gong
room to stretch and lay on my back for a half hour.  Luckily, the pain
subsided, but one spasm and one near-spasm in the same week is kind of
troubling.  Before this week, I hadn't had a spasm in several months.
I stopped occupational therapy, assuming the problem disappeared.  But
now the thought of picking that all up again, doing stretches, and
scheduling appointments is kind of exhausting.

"I bet it was playing Splinter Cell," I said last night, thinking
aloud while Marissa was in the dining room.  "I always have terrible
posture when I play that game, and I had two long playing sessions
when we got home."  Marissa nodded.

I remember back when the therapist described to me the problem of
nerve inflammation, and how if it got worse, it would require surgery
to pluck the nerves up like a guitar string and move them to the other
side of my elbows.  The thought makes me shudder, and I hope it
doesn't happen.

/Sip/.  It feels nice to have an empty weekend.  Today, I'm going to
take down the Christmas lights while Rodney plays outside.  I'm going
to try to get the last of my 2019 mixtapes in the mail.  In the
evening, we're going to go bowling.  Hey - we have to make time for
it.  In 2020, we committed to being a bowling family, and this family
takes our commitments seriously.  Sure - it's not always going to be
easy finding time to go to the bowling alley, but resolutions take
work, and we're here for it.  Tomorrow, we're going to go to church
and continue lounging around the house.  There's also some football on
tomorrow.  With the Bears eliminated, I've decided to hitch my casual
attention to the New Orleans Saints for the duration of the playoffs.
Tomorrow, they play the Vikings, and if they win (I'm pretty sure they
will), they go on to play the Packers.  Did you know they also have
[[https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/1183329028326993921?s=20][the Pope's blessing]]?

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a great Saturday.  Let's do
this!

*** 2020-01-05 Sunday christmas lights, cheap seats, and the sunday scaries

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're having a good Sunday.  This
morning, time seems to be getting away from me.  The plan was to wake
up early and enjoy some coffee before church, but all of the sudden it
was 9:30, and Rodney was awake.  Before I knew it, the 11 AM service
was bearing down on us, and it became sort of a rushed situation.

At least Rodney is having a pretty low key morning.  He was pretty
upset that I made him put on a button down shirt, but we find that he
usually comes around to any outfit as long as he has time to wind down
and sit by himself.  This morning, he's sitting on the living room
couch watching Bill & Ted with a bowl of Cheerios.  Last I checked
him, he was in good spirits.

Even if we sometimes have trouble getting out the door for church,
Sundays are great.  After church, we're going to go out as a family
for pizza at Ian's, then we're hanging out around the house, finishing
up projects while we watch the end of the Saints & Vikings game.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  After a long, hearty breakfast, I
spent the rest of the morning outside with Rodney collecting the
Christmas lights.  As I teased the Christmas lights off our porch
awning, bushes, and front yard tree, I did my best to keep things
organized, but you can only do so much with Christmas lights.
Especially the dangling "icicle" style lights.  Those things are going
to look like hell, no matter how you wrap them.  Yesterday, I tried to
at least bunch them up in their own large ziploc bag.  But it felt
good to get the lights done.  And having everything packed up by
January 4th is pretty respectable as a timetable I think.

After packing away the lights, I spent some time playing hockey with
Rodney in the driveway.  Rodney's getting pretty good with a hockey
stick.  He officially shoots lefty.  At some point he even figured out
how to hold his stick correctly, and his shot it looking pretty decent
these days.

We went inside to escape the cold and eat some lunch.  Marissa was
working on the living room windows, and she too took a break to eat
some leftover pizza with us.  I straightened up the kitchen while
Rodney finished up, then we all took a nap.  Marissa and I drifted off
to sleep on the couch, letting /Cheap Seats/ play on shuffle.

I rediscovered the show /Cheap Seats/ last night.  While we were
eating lunch, a picture of me, Marissa, and the Sklar Brothers
appeared on our desktop computer slide show.  Over lunch, we reflected
on how fun of a comedy show that was.  "Those guys are pros," I said
while chewing.  "And I can't believe they spent like five minutes
talking to us in the middle of state street.  They were super cool."
"And they talked to us after the show too, and remembered us," Marissa
added.

Reflecting on that comedy show put me in a Sklar mood.  /Cheap Seats/
was a TV show they used to do on ESPN classic, where they would watch
old sporting events and add their own snarky commentary, /Mystery
Science Theater/ style.  I still have every episode of the show saved
on my Plex server, and it's great to nap to.

The house started to slowly wake up in the early evening.  I got
Rodney up, we put the dogs away, and we all jumped in the car to go
bowling.  Rodney brought his stuffed giraffe, and insisted I carry him
zipped up in my coat.  We bowled one game, taking a long break for
pizza, then several more breaks to deal with our broken bowling lane.
The first time Marissa walked up to the counter to tell them our lane
was stuck, the guy gave her some attitude.  But after the fifth time,
he was much more apologetic, and by the end of the game he had hooked
us up with some free bowling coupons.

In last night's game, I bowled a 109.  Rodney bowled something in the
low nineties, and Marissa held down last place with something in the
mid forties.  Keep in mind that Rodney is using the bumpers and the
metal bowling ball ramp.

After putting Rodney to bed, I spent most of the night under the
blanket on the couch.  My back has still been a little iffy all
weekend, and I was convinced that I needed just one more solid period
of inactivity, so I grabbed Ziggy and crashed on the couch.  We kept
the Cheap Seats marathon rolling, watching more episodes on shuffle
into the night while Marissa kept painting the windows.

I was grateful I got to take it easy most of the day yesterday.  For
me, next work week is one of those weeks that makes me scared to look
at my calendar.  Last time I checked, I had four code screens and a
meeting on top of what my usual week looks like.  The Sunday scaries
are mounting.  But before we get carried away thinking about how
stressful the work week is going to be, there's still plenty of Sunday
left.  We haven't even left for church yet.  We have pizza, football,
and home projects as a distraction, not to mention more coffee to
drink.  There's plenty of things to do before I even start thinking
about Monday.

The coffee is starting to kick in, and now I'm feeling pretty good.
In a few minutes, I'll jump in the shower, and I might even have time
to brew an extra batch of tequila infused coffee to drink in church.
That stuff is really starting to grow on me.  I'll have to check out
that place's website later to see what else they got.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you all have a wonderful, relaxing
Sunday.  If you have a scary work week coming up, I'd recommend taking
some generous couch time and watching old episodes Cheap Seats.

*** 2020-01-06 Monday dutch grammar, projects, work, and bowling

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  I'd like to
share a small victory with you this morning.  After finally completing
the "Numbers" section in Dutch Duolingo, I moved onto "Conjunctions
1", and for the past few days I have been wrestling with a new grammar
rule that affects word order.  For the most part, I think Duolingo
does a really good job preventing you from overthinking things.  You
learn purely from examples, and when you need to read about why you
got something wrong, you can click a button that takes you to an open
comment forum tied to the question.  Usually, somebody takes the time
to outline a rule that's confusing everyone.  This new rule has really
been a thorn in my side, and I was starting to get discouraged.  Last
night, I sat at the dining room table in front of my cold leftovers
mauling it over while Rodney played with his Nerf gun in the living
room and Marissa continued painting the windows.  After wading through
comments and google results, it finally clicked.

The rule had to do with /subordinate clauses/, or the way I like to
think of them, combinations of words that could make a sentence if it
didn't start with a word like "because" or "if".  For example take the
sentence:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I don't know if he eats vegetables.
#+END_QUOTE

The /subordinate clause/ would be /if he heats vegatables/.  It has a
subject, a verb, and it's even a complete thought.  But because of the
/if/, it cannot stand alone as a sentence.  If you walked up to
somebody and whispered into their ear /If he eats vegetables/, you
might confuse or frustrate someone with the incomplete thought.

In Dutch, the verb within a subordinate clause moves to the end of
the clause.  So literally translated, the above would read

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
I don't know if he vegetables eats.
#+END_QUOTE

Can you see why I was feeling hopeless?  That's a very nuanced rule to
pull out of comments.  And to add to it, this was the first section
where the comments seemed a little different.  Normally they're
flooded with poorly written questions revolving something covered in
the first few sections, but I can tell that I've gotten to a point
where fewer people have made it.  The comments are more articulate,
and even a little angry.

Last night, as I was cleaning the kitchen, I started to space out and
stare at a plaque on my wall.  It's a silly little saying written in
Dutch delft that translates

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Beer, beer, I will drink you, even if I have to crawl on all fours.
#+END_QUOTE

As I was staring at the sentence, something jumped out at me.  The
/even if I have to crawl on all fours/ - that was a subordinate
clause!  As dictated by the new rule I learned that evening, the verb
came at the very end.  So it literally translated to

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
...even If I have to on all fours crawl.
#+END_QUOTE

Or in Dutch, /al moel ik op handen voeten kruipen/.  Isn't that
ironic?  I had been wrestling with this grammar rule, and suddenly
after getting it down, I realize that a perfect example sentence has
been hanging on my wall.

So Dutch is going great.  And to change speeds a bit, we had a great
weekend.  My wife kicked butt on the living room and managed to get
all the windows in our living room painted this weekend.  Last night
before going to bed, we gathered around the project whiteboard and
triumphantly tossed the completed cards into the garbage.  It felt
good to get all of our thoughts and ideas down onto cards, but it
feels even better watching the deck of cards shrink.  Last night, the
empowering reality that we can get real work done in only a week
started to settle in.  "This is a good system," Marissa said before we
turned in for the night.  "I feel encouraged."

So between Dutch grammar and house projects, victories abound.  Well,
they abound for everyone but the New Orleans Saints.  They were
swiftly eliminated from playoff contention by the Vikings yesterday,
who inexplicably played like a real contending team.  There's this
joke about how the Vikings play great against everyone except the
Bears, and watching the game, I couldn't help but dwell on that
superstition.  The Saints kept it interesting and forced an overtime,
but it only took one drive and an easy lob to end it all.  "Now who am
I going to root for in the playoffs," I griped.  "Maybe I should cheer
for Greenbay so they also get eliminated."

For dinner, I made chicken breast, mashed sweet potatoes, and a
mushroom sausage wine pan sauce.  It turned out great, but I didn't
make enough sweet potatoes, which was unexpected.  I boil russet
potatoes for our family all the time, and four russets seemingly last
us a week.  I suppose sweet potatoes do the opposite.  Maybe they get
smaller when they cook.  Maybe they're filled with water - who knows!

All in all, we had a great, restful weekend.  This work week is going
to get a little dicey.  We are starting the hiring rounds for our
summer internship program, and I have a lot of code screens coming my
way.  This week, Marissa and I area also attacking a corner of our
basement.  I have a feeling it's going to be an exhausting week, but I
also know that we're probably going to close things off at the bowling
alley.  The bowling alley is a magical place.  There's nothing to do -
no expectations or obligations.  No deadlines bearing down.  Just a
relaxing little corner of our universe that comforts me, knowing it's
waiting for us at the end of this busy week.

I hope you all have a wonderful week.  Stick to your commitments and
resolutions, and take time to celebrate when you complete them.  Have
a great Monday, everyone!

*** 2020-01-07 Tuesday old scallops, peppermint chocolate, and a glass of water

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is everybody doing today on this
wonderful winter morning?  I checked the forecast this morning before
heading downstairs, as I usually do, and "light snow" caught my
attention.  Remember to bundle up today, it looks like today might
actually feel like a mid January winter day.  Realistically, we seem
to get most of our snow in the early spring don't we?  This past
December, we barely had any snow, so now these days I just expect to
get buried in January, February, and maybe even March.

I'm not going to lie to you, reader.  I'm having a hard time waking up
this morning - as if talking about the weather and snow is going to
help.  Something about this early January has been really tiring me
out.  I'm actually tempted to blame the same cold that we all caught
during our holiday travels.  My nose was pretty stuffed up this
morning, and I have to wonder if the effects are still lingering.  But
colds be damned - the only remedy for unexplained tiredness is just to
keep marching on and hope something changes.

Yesterday, to my advantage, was not as busy as I thought it would be.
My only code screen of the day was a no-show.  Someone not showing up
to an interview doesn't always necessitate a tragic misunderstanding.
I bet some of these college kids must apply to a whole slew of
internships, and when they accept one, they might not have time to
cancel all the other outstanding offers and interviewers.  And believe
me, I absolutely don't mind a no-show either.  As I told our
recruiter, all it means for me is I get thirty free minutes to work on
something alone in a private room, or better yet just sit back in my
chair and not think about anything.  I'm reminded of the classic John
Mulaney bit - "cancelling plans is like heroine - it's instant
relief."

So yesterday worked out just fine, and it wasn't as busy of a work day
as I anticipated.  Today should be kind to me too.  I have some
meetings in the morning, and assuming I can find something juicy to
work on, I should have plenty of quiet coding time for the rest of the
day.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee, as we usually do.  We picked up
pasta, garlic, and a half pound of scallops from the meat counter.  I
left the card pressed up against the lobster tank to Rodney to peak
his head in.  "Lobsters are sleeping," Rodney reported back with
disappointment in his voice.  Ever since he happened to witness a
passionate lobster fight at the Jenny Street market, just seeing
lobsters chilling in a tank of water doesn't do it for him anymore.

Heading up to the checkout, we stopped by the big basket of chocolate
Kinder eggs, as we normally do.  While digging around for an egg,
Rodney found a misplaced peppermint white chocolate bar.  He held it
in front of me, signaling that he made his choice.  "Are you sure
dude," I questioned.  "This is peppermint, it might not taste like
what you'd expect."  Rodney held it closer to my face, persisting.  We
unwrapped it in the car, and taking the first bite, he declared "SO
TASTY."  So I guess it worked out.

At home, Rodney played with his toys in the living room while I
prepared dinner.  The plan was to make garlic pasta, then somewhere in
the mix, find time and stovetop space to fry some scallops in brown
butter.  As I opened the bag of scallops over the sink, a very funky
puff of old fish filled my nostrils and made me wince.  I rolled me
eyes.  Sometimes, I don't even know why I bother with Hy-Vee's
scallops.  For most items - beef, chicken, pork, even white fish -
they do a pretty good job of making sure everything is fresh and
edible.  But I knew I shouldn't have rolled the dice on the bucket of
tiny limp scallops sitting in murky water.  I know a savvy fish
shopper would have asked to smell them before buying, but I go to
Hy-Vee every day, and I don't want to be marked as /that guy who asks
to smell the fish/.  "Whatever," I thought.  "They might not be fresh,
but I trust Hy-Vee just enough to not make us sick."

The meal turned out just fine.  Brown butter, lemon zest, and garlic
cover a multitude of old seafood sins.  I even toasted some slices of
leftover french bread in the butter and smeared it with tomato pesto.
As we ate, Marissa told me about all the projects she got done around
the house.  "I saw what you did to our bedroom," I remarked.  "It's so
cozy now, I almost feel lucky I get to sleep there."  Marissa nodded.
Earlier that day, we reflected on the state of things.  We've put a
lot of work into this house, but sometimes our bedroom goes unnoticed.
For the longest time, we didn't even have a bed - it was just a
mattress on the corner.

I led Rodney upstairs to bed.  We had a small confrontation that led
me to raise my voice.  "Dada go drink water you'll feel better," he
said drying up his tears.  "You want a glass of water?" I asked.
"No," he insisted.  "Dada drink water and feel better."  He led me by
the hand over to the sink, and poured me a half glass of water from
the sink, handing it to me.  "See?  All better."

Though sweet, that moment was kind of puzzling to me.  Later Marissa
clarified.  "He woke up crying one night, and I told him drinking a
glass of water would make him feel better," she explained.  It's sweet
that he took it as life advice.  And he's not wrong, is he?  Getting a
glass of water always makes you feel better.

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday.  Rodney
reminds you that if you're upset about something today, take time to
get a glass of water.  It will make you feel better.

*** 2020-01-08 Wednesday coffee, sushi, ironman, and sorting books

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How are you all feeling today?  This morning
I'm working from home, so without showering and commuting, I could
afford to get out of bed just a little later.  The dogs were pretty
annoyed with how slowly I was moving, however.  They like to eat at
6:45 and be back in bed with their momma by 7.  Can you believe I had
the nerve to feed them breakfast past 7?  I'm sure I'll hear about
that later.

This morning, I'm thankful for coffee.  Even with the extra minutes in
bed, this morning felt impossible.  In fact, before coffee just about
every morning feels impossible.  The first moments of the morning
where I sleepily trudge down the stairs, I feel like a broken robot.
And just as my body feels tired, so are my thoughts.  In fact, usually
the first thought I have every day is /wouldn't it feel wonderful to
just flop back into bed and sleep until I wake up?/ But if I overcome
my lack of will and manage to drag my sleepy legs into the kitchen,
the first sip of coffee changes everything.  Coffee warms everything
up - body and mind.  I'm truly a different person before I have my
coffee.  What I'm trying to say is this - don't talk to me before I've
had my coffee.  /Sip/.

This morning we're drinking more of the tequila fire department blend,
which has proven itself to be worth the extra work of transferring it
to a separate carafe for my continued enjoyment and rinsing all the
coffee parts anew for Marissa.  She's more of a Breakfast Blend kind
of girl.

Yesterday was a pretty good day of work.  I'm jumping into the world
of golang about a year late, but better late than never.  My team
inherited a little piece of code that will ultimately run on
Kubernetes, so to allow me to work on it, I installed the language
runtime, saved my configs, and made a test project to ensure
everything was working.  Setting up your laptop to work on a new
programming language is kind of exciting.  The best comparison I can
make is getting a new kitchen gadget, like a mixer or an immersion
blender.  Only it's even better, because unlike my kitchen, my laptop
has practically infinite space for new tools and gadgets.

For lunch, my boss took us out to sushi.  Most of us, me included,
ordered the chef's special, which is a purely random assortment of
sushi.  If you have a little faith, the chef's special is a treat.
Nothing beats letting someone else order your food for you.  We
enjoyed raw slices of salmon, yellow fin tuna, red snapper, and
shrimp.  And of course, I had a beer.  As we were wrapping up lunch,
setting aside empty plates and enjoying final sips of beer, my boss
threw out an interesting question.  "Let's go around and share what
we're excited to work on this year."  We groaned in unison, teasing
him for the rehearsed segue into work talk, then took turns sharing.
"When I first starting working here," I shared, "our infrastructure
felt like it was impossible to change.  But looking back, everything
we complained about is now either gone or about to leave.  Everything
looks completely different."  The team nodded and my boss chimed in.
"You're coming up on four years this fall," he said.  "I think they
still give out Apple Watches for four year anniversaries."  I smiled.
"I'm going to just give it to Rodney," I joked.

At four o'clock, I closed my work windows and started surfing around
for a new recipe to try.  I landed on Chef John's potato and kale
hash, which looked easy enough.  After taking the bus home, I scooped
Rodney out of his bed and we left for Hy-Vee to pick up potatoes,
leeks, kale, Irish cheddar, and pancietta.  Rodney also deliberately
selected a cucumber, as if he had plans for it later.  As we walked up
the cheese aisle looking for the right cheddar, Rodney lagged behind
finding something interesting on the shelf.  Suddenly, his eyes darted
up, and seeing that I was already in the bread aisle, he ran to me in
a panic.  He seemed to feel guilty about wandering away to look at
cheese.

"It's OK, dude," I said comforting him.  "Look, we come to Hy-Vee a
lot.  If you want to walk away for a second to check something out, I
trust you.  We practically live here."  Rodney nodded, and repeated
the last phrase I said, as he normally does.  His thin voice awkwardly
trailed off with /practically LIVE heeeere?/.  Before checking out, we
swung by the basket of chocolate eggs.  Rodney rifled through the pile
and found a Marvel themed egg - his favorite.  Before starting on
dinner at home, I helped him assemble the toy at the dinner table.
"Iron man!" he exclaimed, as I peeled the paper back.  It was in fact
Black Panther, but I'm not going to sweat the details.  I have faith
that Disney will make approximately five thousand more big budget
Marvel movies in our lifetime, and Rodney will have plenty of time to
learn their names - even if he's not paying attention to them.

Back in the kitchen leaving Rodney to play with IRONMAN, I cubed some
potatoes for the hash.  Cutting potatoes is a lot of fun.  The slices
stick to the cutting board perfectly, allowing you to move quickly
with the knife tip.  When I cut onions, I'm glad to be done; but with
potatoes, I always wish there were more.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I wrapped up the evening by
cleaning our bookshelf.  We removed all the books, and as she sorted
them into piles, I wiped everything down with Windex.  Marissa handed
me the sorted piles of books, and using our geode bookends, I
reassembled things.  "I just need to tease you for a minute," said
Marissa.  "Why did you point the pretty side of the geode toward the
books?  You can't even see it?"  Fair point.  Sorting books, as we
concluded last night, is a lot more fun than you'd think.  It
inevitably leads you to tell stories and reminisce.

So that's what I got today.  Hope you all have a wonderful day today.
When was the last time you sorted your bookshelf?  Happy Wednesday,
everyone.

*** 2020-01-09 Thursday cleaning the basement, goulash, and art scams

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How are you all feeling today?  This morning
I feel like I was hit by a very tiny train.  Last night Marissa and I
attacked a corner of the basement.  In merely an hour, we broke down
about twenty cardboard boxes, filled our trunk with things ready for
Goodwill, and set aside three black garbage bags for the recycling
center.  I put a tiny speaker up by the window sill, and we worked
feverishly.  "I'm feeling pretty motivated now," said Marissa as we
were wrapping up.  When we were all done, we retreated upstairs to
create more work cards, then we crashed on the couch.  Sitting there
in our living room, I was grateful to be finally relaxing on the
couch, and that beer tasted like something sent from Heaven.  Work
feels good, doesn't it?  This morning, even though I'm sore and still
a bit exhausted, I'm still enjoying the afterglow.  This morning, I
just went downstairs to walk around and admire our work.  I'm feeling
proud, and I too am feeling motivated.

Cleaning the basement was a vigorous ending to a great day.  I worked
from home pretty much all day, and Marissa hung around the house too.
In the afternoon, we swung by my work building so I could pick up a
charger from IT, then we went out for pizza.  As we ate, we couldn't
help but overhear the table beside us - two guys who had already
finished their lunch, one of them dressed in all khaki like some kind
of forest ranger, and the other in regular street clothes.  They were
very loudly talking about the specifics of their new start-up which
was to farm and sell honey.  "So... what if somebody comes along and
SUES us," they continued, as Marissa and I smirking at each other.  We
left Ian's, still chatting about the encounter.  "Well they were
probably at Ian's Pizza for two and a half hours, this new company
must already be going great," I cracked.  "Yeah, and remember, they
were already done when we got there, and we left together," Marissa
added.

I worked through the rest of the afternoon, then spent a few minutes
at the family computer looking for a new dinner recipe.  "What are you
in the mood for?" I hollered to Marissa in the living room.
"Something salad-y," she said.  I rolled my eyes.  "What about
something soupy?" I asked.

"How about you do soup and salad?" she suggested.

"You can't do soup /and/ salad," I sneered.  "It's soup /or/ salad."
Marissa, who had joined Rodney at his train table dismissed the
technicality.  As we were arguing, I stumbled upon a recipe for
goulash that sounded pretty good.  "I'm going to make goulash," I
yelled.  "And I'll pick up a salad kit on the side."

Rodney, enraptured with a good playtime session, didn't want to go to
Hy-Vee that evening.  I was on the same page - Wednesdays feel
different since I hang around the house, so I wasn't offended.  Plus,
my goulash would need plenty of time on the stove.  I speedily left
for Hy-Vee, buying macaroni noodles, onion, ground beef, and canned
tomatoes.  Back at home, I happily assembled the goulash while putting
away the groceries and cleaning the kitchen.  As the recipe neared
completion, I started to feel like a grade-school lunch lady,
occasionally stirring the big pot of brown liquid.

Over dinner as we ate goulash, Marissa recapped her afternoon.  She
had spent some time at a Dentist office on the west side of town
setting up her art.  The deal was they would display her art for a few
months, and in turn they wouldn't collect any commission on the sales.
At the dinner table, we kicked around the pros and cons of the
arrangement.

"I suppose if these were really bad dudes, they could suddenly up and
leave town with all your art," I said chewing a mouthful of noodles.
"What if it wasn't even a real dentist office?"

Marissa chuckled.  "Yeah, I don't know about that.  I saw a lot of
dentists and patients walking around," she said.

"Actors," I interjected, wagging my finger.  "They might all be
actors.  Here's what these people do.  It's a fake dentist office.
All the equipment is stolen, and that location you visited - they're
probably just squatting.  They find an artist on Instagram, get them
to agree to loan art, then suddenly they'll disappear.  You'll go back
and it will just be an empty building."

"I don't know, that sounds like a lot of work," Marissa said laughing.

"Oh sure," I said.  "It's a lot of work, but after you wait a year for
things to cool down and slowly sell the paintings..."

"Somewhere other than Instagram, because I would see it," Marissa
added.

"Sure, somewhere other than Instagram."  I continued.  "Then pay off
all the extras that played fake dentists and patients, I bet you could
make it out with a cool twelve hundred dollars."

"Which is not a lot of money," Marissa said shaking her head.

"Sure - but that's just one artist.  You'd be doing this to maybe
twelve artists at a time, and as long as they don't know each other,
it will work."

So that was yesterday.  Today, I'm grateful it's already Thursday.  I
have a code screen in the morning, then I have some more coding to do
in the afternoon.  I'm pretty tired, but kicking it with my family
this weekend and hanging out at the bowling alley sounds so like a
fitting reward.  At this point, I'm probably as excited to go bowling
this weekend as Rodney is.

I hope you all have a wonderful day.  Whether you make your money
farming honey from bees, or working as a fake dentist for Instagram
art con men, I'm sure you deserve a restful weekend as well.  Hang in
there - we're almost there.

Have a wonderful Thursday, everyone.  Here's to the near weekend!

*** 2020-01-10 Friday frustration, fake seasoning, and coding

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is everyone feeling today?  This morning,
I'm feeling well rested.  This time of year, hot showers seem to keep
me sane, but it's hard to step out of a really good shower on a cold
morning, isn't it?  Most mornings I picture myself like Kramer in the
Seinfeld episode where he decides to live in the shower.  I'm sure if
my work computer were waterproof, I would try it for just a day.

Aren't you glad it's Friday?  I am.  I'm relieved it's Friday.
Between working in the basement and working at home, I feel exhausted,
but equally happy and grateful we're just about done.  Just as I
described to Rodney last night while putting him to bed, we have
plenty to look forward to.  We're going to get some snow tonight,
we're going to make a pizza, and on Saturday, we're going bowling.
The Recker family gets hyped about Saturdays at the bowling alley.

I'm also feeling tired from working in the basement this week, but
still reeling from what we accomplished.  Marissa and I share the same
disbelief.  "Today I went downstairs to do a load of wash," she
explained, "and I noticed I was still stepping over and weaving
between the imaginary garbage that's no longer there."  I laughed,
picturing her zig zagging through an open corner of the basement out
of habit.

Thursday was a long, hard day for the both of us.  Marissa had a tough
agility class.  Ziggy was at a high energy level, and they were having
a tough time connecting while training, and Rodney didn't help the
situation either.  "Rodney is feeling more confident there," she said.
"He's friendly to everyone, and likes to get involved, but now he's
less likely to just sit and entertain himself."  I continued listening
as we sat around the dinner table at Pasquale's.  Rodney had claimed
our second bowl of taco chips for himself.  He even got angry with me
when I tried to take a chip, leading to an intense dinner table stare
down.

Marissa and I continued to vent and exchange stories.  I didn't have a
great day at work either.  I didn't get as much work done as I had
hoped.  All this week, I have been trying to jump into a new project,
using a new programming language and new framework, and I was starting
to feel restless.  I seemingly can't find enough time to focus and
gain some traction, and by yesterday it was starting to frustrate me.
Sometimes, I wish I could freeze time, and sit with something for six
or seven hours in absolute silence until I understand it.  And as soon
as I start to build some momentum, I get a slack message or a calendar
notification.  My concentration breaks, and it feels like I have to
start over again.

The best part of my work day yesterday had to be my leftover goulash.
I filled a bowl and left it in the work microwave while I selected a
drink from the fridge.  I relished the smell as it started to trickle
out of the break room.  I ate in the break room with Heath, Nate, and
Karl.  Karl, who just had a baby, recently returned from paternity
leave and was regaling us with stories from the big lifestyle change.
Nate was picking at a flimsy chicken breast.

"Nate, I just have to say, that chicken breast looks like you bought
it on an airplane," Heath teased.

"Yeah," Nate replied.  "But I didn't.  This one is all on me.  The
worst part is that the seasoning is fake.  It looks like it should
taste like something, but I think it's just supposed to look
seasoned."  I laughed, reflecting on the concept of /fake seasoning/.
"What are you eating today, Recker?" said Heath turning to me.

"Goulash," I replied, playing with my fork.  "It's a one pot meal, and
I kind of got to give my family the middle school lunch lady
experience - you know, /ENJOY YA NUTRITIOUS MEAL KID.  NO SECONDS./,"
I said with my best hoarse smoker's voice, miming slapping a pile of
food onto a plate.

I worked through the afternoon, the joined my coworkers on the seventh
floor for happy hour.  Having only ten minutes before my bus arrived
outside, I decided not to imbibe.  Last time, I had to practically
chug the rest of my White Claw, and it left me feeling sort of woozy
after heading home.  I stayed just long enough to chat about the day
and bid everyone farewell.

After going out to dinner with Marissa, I put Rodney to bed.  We read
a book about how Spider-Man, Ironman, the Hulk, and Thor challenged
ice monsters from another dimension to a snowball fight.  "Look dude -
that's Spider-man, Ironman, and that's the Hulk."  Rodney looked up
from our book, puzzled.  "No, not hulk.  That's hulk," he said
pointing at one of the ice monsters.  "Agree to disagree," I said,
smiling back at him.

After putting Rodney to bed, I went into chill mode.  I changed into
some sweats and hung out on the couch with my laptop, letting YouTube
run in the background.  I spent the evening tidying up some of my side
projects and cleaning up the automation around my blog.

I'm also starting to branch out into the world of mainstream NFL.  I
watched a video on the top rookies of 2019 and some general reactions
to major off season decisions.  I'm finally bearing witness to how
underrepresented the Chicago Bears are in most discussions.  Mitch
Trubisky was mentioned once - and used as an example of a promising
young quarterback who turned a disappointing corner.

So that's what I got today.  I allowed myself plenty of extra time to
publish my entry today, just in case I broke the script last night
while shuffling things around.  There's nothing worse than seeing an
error message and code puke out onto your screen as you're trying to
rush out the door to catch a bus.

Hey - thanks for reading, and happy Friday.  You're practically done
for the week.  There's nothing left to do but to cook meals, shovel
snow, and take your family bowling.  Have a great Friday, everyone.

*** 2020-01-11 Saturday jazz hearts, snow, and a game of catch

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're all feeling good this Saturday
morning.  Today, we all slept in, and we just wrapped up breakfast.
I'm feeling well-rested, fed, and grateful.  While waiting for the
Dutch baby to finish in the oven, I cleaned the kitchen with Rodney's
help, and made a short TODO list for the day.

Here - this will be fun - why don't I just share my TODO list?

#+BEGIN_SRC org
  ,* Today [3/9]

  - [X] clean kitchen
  - [X] make breakfast
  - [X] order coffee
  - [ ] blog post
  - [ ] Rod's laundry
  - [ ] Dad's laundry
  - [ ] shovel snow
  - [ ] take garbage into shed
  - [ ] respond to Jordan
#+END_SRC

I was grateful to sleep in today.  Yesterday was a long day.  I had a
regular workday, went out to lunch with my teammates, then stepped out
for the afternoon to go to a doctor's appointment.  At the last scan,
the doctor heard an arythmia in baby Miles' heart beat - and we heard
it too.  It was almost as if his heart would skip a beat every four
counts, like a flam on a snare drum.  The analogy stuck and since
then, we've been referring to it as his /jazz heart/.  Yesterday was
the follow up appointment.  We were nervous, but the doctor
immediately attenuated our fear by reporting that the arythmia went
away and the heart beat sounded normal again.  "These things come and
go," the doctor explained.  "The heart muscles are immature at this
stage, and they do weird things.  The important thing is that the
structure of the heart still looks good."  What a relief!  We
celebrated by grabbing a quick cup off coffee and snack at Collectivo,
then I returned to work to wrap up the day.

After bussing home, the three of us drove to Hy-Vee to pick up
groceries.  With a snowstorm approaching, soup started to sound like a
better idea than pizza.  We went with leek and potato, which has
become a stand by favorite in our house.  Returning home, Marissa
painted while Rodney and I hung around the kitchen and cooked.

After finishing dinner, my back started to feel sore, and I had a
headache coming on.  The day wasn't particularly tough, and we were
most excited to get good news from the doctor, but it was as if the
entire work week caught up with my head and body all at once.  Marissa
graciously excused me to go take a nap upstairs, agreeing to put
Rodney to bed.

I slept like the dead until 10:30, and when I emerged from our
bedroom, I felt like I was walking around on a different planet.  I
crashed on the couch to allow my body to readjust.  Marissa was
wrapping up a painting upstairs and joined me on the couch.  I got up,
and not exactly knowing what to do with myself, I picked up Rodney's
football and threw it to Marissa.  She flinched, but caught the ball
in her arm, then threw it back to me.

"You throw a really nice spiral - I think it's better than mine," I
complimented her, throwing the ball back.

"I used to play catch with my dad," she replied.

"I can't wait until Rodney is old enough to carry on a game of catch.
I really miss throwing the ball around with somebody," I explained.
Marissa nodded, replying "I feel the same."

Marissa and I continued talking, throwing the football back and forth.
The dogs, at first riled up from the moving ball, eventually
acclimated and we continued talking.  It was almost as if playing
catch activated old memories - we traded stories of prom, awkward
first dates, childhood memories, bullies, and fights.  Marissa and I
lost track of time, and played catch in the living room until 12:30.

"OK, it's time to have a snack," said Marissa, excusing herself into
the kitchen.  I popped some popcorn, and we reconvened on the couch to
watch a movie.  Feeling refreshed from a long nap, I had no problem
staying up a little later to watch an hour of a movie.  I picked the
movie /Catfish/, which is an interesting documentary about
impersonating people on the Internet.  We finally called it a night at
1:30.  I did my best to clean the kitchen and start a load in the
dishwasher, then we called it a day.

After writing, I'll probably take Rodney outside.  I promised him that
we would play in the snow while I shoveled.  As expected, the promised
/snowpocalypse/ only yielded about two inches of snow, and it looks
like my neighbor decided to do our side of the driveway as well.  We
live next to some good people - you gotta love that.

So instead of shoveling, it looks like I'm just going to take Rodney
outside to play in the snow for a bit.  If it feels nice out, we might
go for a walk.  Unfortunately, Rodney's sled didn't make it through
the summer.  This past fall, a big crack formed in the middle and we
had to discard it, but we might be able to fashion a makeshift sled
out of a big tupperware bin and some rope, and that might be just good
enough to drag around the block.  We'll see.

Today, we're also looking to empty the project board of all remaining
tasks.  There are only a few cards left, and even though we're still
trying to figure out a natural home project workload for a typical
week, the temptation to go above and beyond is there.  Later today, if
we have time before bowling, I might set up some new tech toys we got
in the mail.  I spent my cut of our Christmas money on a new wireless
access point, and I think this might be the upgrade that makes our
WiFi reachable from the bar across the street.

So that's what I got today.  Today, we're just hanging around the
house, working on what we feel like, playing in the snow, and later
today we'll end the day by going bowling.  We might also watch some
football this afternoon - both the Packers and the Vikings have
play-off games, so I'm going to do my best to keep tabs on them.

Hope you have a great day everyone.  Go play in the snow or something.

*** 2020-01-12 Sunday water slide videos, snow balls, and types of bowlers

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  There's not
much going on at our house today.  Marissa and the dogs are at an
agility trial, so at the moment it's just me and Rodney hanging
around.  Rodney woke up upset about something - like he had a bad
dream, but he may have accidentally rolled out of bed and hurt it
back.  So I let him take his breakfast on the couch today.  He's
currently sitting there with some cheerios, a peeled orange, and an
empty Capri Sun.  I sat with him while I drank my first cup of coffee.
These days, Rodney is into watching videos about waterslides.  We
found a YouTube channel comprised of POV GOPRO footage of rides put to
relaxing new age music.  That's a nice, low key alternative to our
usual kid friendly programming.

/Sip/.  I'm having trouble waking up today.  The plan was to wake up
at 7:30 so I could help Marissa get out the door, but I guess that
didn't happen.  I don't even remember my alarm going off.  That's
always sort of troubling, isn't it?  Honestly, the fact that I can so
easily oversleep on the weekends makes me wonder how I ever wake up on
time for work.  But somehow, as if my body knows it's a work week, it
happens reliably.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  After yesterday's breakfast, Rodney
and I spent the rest of the morning outside.  There wasn't much
shoveling to do, so I stretched it out and took plenty of time take
breaks to play with Rodney.  We through snowballs at each other, and I
pushed him down the driveway while he sat in a big empty Tupperware
bin.

At one point, Rodney threw a piece of ice that hit me square in the
face, leaving a little bloody pinpoint between my eyes.  It hurt, but
it was a nice shot, and I couldn't be mad.  We wrapped up work outside
by piling some garbage into the car, planning on taking it to the dump
before lunch.  But after jumping in the car, we found out that the
dump was closed.  Marissa groaned from the front seat of the car -
"I'm sorry - would you mind taking it all out when we get home?"

We grabbed a big lunch at Portillo's, swung by Home Depot, then
returned home.  Rodney went down for a nap, and I hung around the
living room and worked on code while Marissa painted.  We played the
Vikings game on the TV in the background.

I had a chance to organize my blog a bit.  At this point, I have so
many entries, if I change my mind about how I want to structure them,
it takes a whole afternoon just to go back and update everything.
Keeping that much data around feels like tending to a garden.

Just an update of how things look now.  I keep all my entries in one
file, which is currently 20,089 lines of text, 201,189 words, and
1,095,731 characters.  The file is currently 1.1MB in size.  I think
it will be fun to watch that file continue to grow over time.

So I spent the rest of the afternoon just fixing up old entries,
chatting with Marissa, and absentmindedly watching the Vikings game.
It's become clear to me that the 49ers are probably in the best shape
to win the Superbowl.  Their offense and defense is equally
terrifying.  Currently, my ideal superbowl match up would be the
Titans and the 49ers.  The Titans are on a pretty wild winning streak
now, eliminating the Baltimore Ravens last night.  I was sure they
were going to lose that game.

I took a quick nap on the couch, then we jumped in the car and headed
to the bowling alley.  We bowled two games, taking a break to eat some
pizza.  Marissa decided to use the bumpers this time, and the funny
thing was it seemed to really improve her score, even though she
didn't need them.  "I think my problem with bowling is just mental,"
she said coming back from picking up a spare.  "It's like I like
knowing the bumpers are there so I don't have to worry about gutter
balls."

We took our time through the second game.  Lately, I enjoy watching
other people bowl at the alley.  My favorite kind of bowler is the
macho dad who knows how to throw a curve ball, but only picks up three
pins every time he does it.  It's almost as if this type of bowler is
so proud of his form, that it doesn't matter how many pins he hits.
There's also the pure speed guy, who seems to get more satisfaction
from making the whole alley shake with a thirty mile per hour howitzer
than he does from getting a good score.  There's the sixteen year old
girl who inexplicably gets two strikes in a row, then on the next
frame when a turkey is on the line, she starts to overthink her form,
wondering if she has been a gifted bowler all this time, and bowls a
gutter ball.  There's the classic midwestern mom - who can never seem
to get a strike, but always picks up the spare with gentle disposition
and surgical accuracy.  There's the guy who bowls with two hands -
partly because he watched a YouTube video about that's a superior way
to introduce spin and control, but also because he's not strong enough
to throw the ball with one hand.

And then there's us.  We celebrate every pin that Rod knocks down as
if he just won a state title.  We encourage his bizarre pre throw
ritual of running on his tip toes, throwing the ball with just his
finger tips, and laying on his belly while he watches it roll down the
alley.  We're considering buying matching custom family bowling
shirts.

After bowling, we put Rodney to bed, and it was just me and Marissa.
I started to gear up for some chores, but Marissa stopped me in my
tracks.  "Nope.  No work.  We are doing nothing."  It didn't take much
convincing for me to hang up my apron and flop on the couch.

Today, Rodney and I are hanging around the house.  I hope to do some
IT work today as well as find something new to cook for dinner.  Until
then, two of three Recker boys will be holding down the fort, watching
relaxing water slide videos and thinking about the next time we get to
go bowling.  Hope you have a wonderful day everyone.

*** 2020-01-13 Monday back spasms, egg yolks, pork chops, and ethernet cables

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Today was kind of a weird start to the
morning and this work week.  I woke up at three in the morning last
night in the middle of a pretty bad back spasms.  I paced around the
house, took a hot shower, and eventually fell asleep with some hand
warmers stuffed behind my neck about two hours later.  I decided to
use some sick leave to sleep in and schedule some appointments.  Since
it seems I'm back on the weekly back spasms, I think it's time to go
back to physical therapy.

I'm feeling pretty discouraged about it.  Where we left things last
session, my neck pillow and arm braces had magically fixed all the
problems I was having, and my therapist happily advised that there was
no more need for regular sessions with her.  I agreed to continue to
do my arm stretches and take frequent breaks at work, and my posture
even started to improve.  So to say the least, the spasms suddenly
returning with the same frequency that made me seek therapy to begin
with is worrying.

So thanks to my crummy back and pissed off nerves, this week is off to
a rough start.  I haven't decided if I'm going to head into the
office, or just open my work laptop here at my desk, and I'm hoping by
the time I've finished writing this morning journal entry, I'll have
made up my mind.

All things aside, this weekend was pretty great.  Yesterday morning,
Rodney and I hung around the house.  He continued watching his water
slide videos, then around 11, he wandered into the kitchen looking for
something to do.  I let him pick two bags from my tech bin into his
bedroom, where I folded laundry while he fiddled with some velcro
tape.  Be both went down into the kitchen to make some lunch.  Rodney
and I made some soft boiled eggs to serve with his peanut butter and
jelly and cucumber slices.  He was unsure about the egg.  "Dude, you
made this.  There's no point in making food if you're not even going
to eat it," I advised.  He gingerly took a bite of egg white and
smiled, yelling "TASTY!".

Off to a great start with this soft boiled egg adventure, I pushed our
luck a little further.  "Try some of the yellow part," I said.  Rodney
looked at it between his little fingers and crossed his eyes.  "No
/dees/", he said in lieu of "no thanks."

"Just a little bit," I urged.

Rodney stared at the egg in thought, repeating my words /lil bit/,
then he took another sheepish bite.  This time, his brow furrowed and
he winced.  "SOUR." he stated.

"That's not surprising," Marissa said later that night.  "You must get
that from me, momma doesn't like the yellow part either."

"What?" I questioned.  "That doesn't even make any sense.  That's
where all the flavor is - who doesn't like egg yolks?"

"We don't," Marissa replied.  "We got a thing with textures, and egg
yolks are a weird texture."

Marissa returned home from agility just before dinner and took a nap
on the couch while I took Rodney to Hy-Vee.  Thanks to the Packer
game, the store was practically empty.  We were able to quickly zip in
and out, picking up pork chops, arugula lettuce, and a nice fresh loaf
of bread.  We also picked up a chocolate egg, as usual.  As the
butcher was grabbing the pork for us, he commented on how empty the
score was.  "Yeah on games it will be busy just before while people
pick up dinner and snacks, then once the game starts it's totally
quiet like this," he said.  "I'm a Rams fan myself.  Well, they're the
LA Rams now, but whatever, they're still my team."

"They shouldn't be allowed to just relocate a team like that," I said
empathetically.

At home, Rodney ate his chocolate egg at the dining room table, then
joined me in the kitchen just in time to help me peel some garlic.
"Rodney do it," he said, palming a clove in his fist.  I peeled three
cloves, then to my surprise, Rodney dropped a fourth clove on the
cutting board.  I inspected the clove for paper remnants.  "Wow - nice
job dude.  You actually peeled this one," I said.  His reward was
getting to use the garlic press.  Who doesn't like the satisfying
sensation of popping and pressing a clove of garlic?

For dinner, we had pork chops in an apple juice glaze pan sauce with a
side of berry & green apple salad.  My appreciate for pork chops
continues to grow.  Pork chops are cheap, and they seemingly always
come out amazing.  Cooking a pork chop is like cooking a steak in slow
motion.  You still get the buttery, salty crust with the juicy pink
center, but the stakes aren't so high.  Instead of dealing with
ripping hot, smoking canola oil, it's just some melted brown butter,
and you can take as much time as you want.  Last night, I didn't even
need to take the batteries out of my smoke detector.

After dinner, Marissa and I got to work.  I tackled rewiring the
dining room computer and Marissa later joined me in the dining room to
make some Ethernet cables.  At this point in my IT career, I've given
up on making Ethernet cables.  I don't think it's something I was ever
meant to do.  Marissa, on the other hand, is a natural.  Having her
around, we also took another pass at my cable management.  What became
clear to me last night is that while I can consolidate cables, I don't
have a good eye when it comes to hiding them.  "It's tidy, but a
little /in your face/, you know?" said Marissa, tip toeing around my
feelings.  We retired on the couch just long enough to watch one
season of Office bloopers, then called it a night.  The dining room
wireless card would have to last another day or so, as I didn't get a
chance to set up the software.

Today is already starting to feel like a regular day.  My head was all
over the place, and my body was still a little sore from last night,
but getting it all down in a journal entry evened everything out and
helped me gather my thoughts.  I suppose it's never too late to start
having a good week.  This week, I'm going to try to get excited about
taking another crack at physical therapy.  What I remember about last
time is that the spasms are the body's way of communicating it's not
happy - almost as if the real underlying cause is still out there
waiting to be found.  Through that lens, it sounds like it could be an
adventure.

Have a great Monday, everyone.  Be good to your back - drink water and
take lots of breaks to stretch.  Have a great work week.

*** 2020-01-14 Tuesday salmon, poop talk, and vice president of cable management

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling well today.  Looking at
the weather, we should finally start to brace for some real winter
weather.  It looks like for the rest of this week, we should see some
on & off snow and some chilly temperature.  I'm here for the cold
weather.  While I shoveled the deck and the front porch yesterday, I
decided that I'm in a winter mood.

Yesterday, I had a weird start to the day.  My team at work was pretty
gracious about giving me extra time in the morning to heal up after a
bad spasm.  The extra sleep offset the terrible night, and before I
knew it, I was back at work hacking on some code.  While my work day
was starting up, my wife was nice enough to set me up a doctor's
appointment.  They called me later that afternoon, and I managed to
get in this Wednesday morning.  The nurse on the phone told me the
doctor I was seeing also specializes in realignment therapy.  "It's a
combination of chiropractic therapy and massage," he told me.  "That
sounds amazing," I said, trying not to sound too enthusiastic about
the massage.  Who knows, I may get my wish of a quick punch in the
back and instant relief after all.

I'm feeling encouraged that everything came together so fast.  Over
lunch, my manager joined me at the seventh floor bar.  Before the
holidays, he had discovered that we suffer from the same elbow nerve
affliction.  "I found out what was making mine worse was all the
sweets I was eating," he explained.  "I decided to lay off of sugar
this month, and eat healthier in general, and it's been really
helping."  I nodded, adding, "Totally - it's all related, right?  Last
December I had a really bad flare up after eating fast food in the
car.  I think sometimes the salt gets to me."

After lunch, I jumped back into some code.  I'm pleased to have
finally found a productive, stimulating workflow within our team's new
code base.  The new programming language trips me up at times, but it
already feels like the good old days where I used to work on a big
statically compiled monolith.  Making a patch, rebasing it, then
scratching your head because it no longer successfully compiles
brought on some unexpected nostalgia.

During the work session, I listened to the new posthumous Mac Miller
single, and I unintentionally let it play on loop through the
afternoon.  It's a great sound, undoubtedly made more meaningful and
emotional from his death two years ago.  I started a new section in my
notes for the 2020 mixtape.  Field research never sleeps.

Back at home, I scooped up Rodney out of his room so we could go to
the grocery store.  Before we left, he asked if he could finish
pooping.  He paused for a minute, standing listlessly by his window,
then happily reported "OK all done, we can change now."  I try to
limit the poop talk in this journal to spare Rodney from embarrassment
(and spare whatever you had for breakfast before reading this), but
he's at such a fascinating developmental intersection, I couldn't
resist.  Our potty training journey has stagnated in the limbo between
diapers and toilets, but he seems more aware of it now, and I think
that first victorious poop in the toilet is right around the corner.
"Maybe we should try pooping on the potty sometime, dude.  I think
you'll really like it, it's a lot of fun," I encouraged him as we
cleaned up.

Talking to my manager over lunch about eating healthier must have
mentally planted a seed, because salmon & salad found its way to our
evening grocery list.  I'm also starting to notice how cheap salad can
be.  A pound and a half of salmon, lettuce, a bottle of dressing,
slivered almonds, and fruits (along with some other things we needed
for the house) ran me about thirty bucks.  If that feeds the three of
us for dinner and two more of us for lunch the next day, that's about
six bucks per person.  /Goedkope/, I whispered to myself at the
checkout aisle.  That's the Dutch word for "cheap".  Finally, salad is
starting to speak my language!

Back at home, Marissa napped on the couch while I prepped the salmon.
I threw together a marinade of lemon juice, mayo, pepper, and honey,
then I set Rodney up at the dining room table with his chocolate egg.
Prepping the salad while the fish soaked in the marinade was easy.  I
just sliced some cucumbers and apples and slowly incorporated them
into the lettuce.  I still find the process of salad assembly to be
tedious.  I'm still getting the hang of finding the right ratio of
ingredients.  Last night, dropping thin slices of apple around the top
of the lettuce, I felt like I was dealing cards.

After the salmon had spent a half hour in the marinade, I moved it to
the oven and blasted it at 450F for twenty minutes.  Some of the sugar
in the marinade burned along the outside of the silpat, but my silpat
has seen much worse, so I wasn't worried.  If it were sentient, I
imagine my silpat would be a quiet, experienced presence in the food
prep locker room.  /This?  This is nothing, kid.  You should have/
/seen me the first time he tried baking french cookies.  Four hundred/
/sixty degree oven.  Burning sugar everywhere.  It was hell./

After dinner, Marissa and I caught up on some projects.  As I was
waiting for her to clean up after a paining session and help me hang a
wireless access point, I talked her ear off about my cable management
securities.  "It's clear to me that I'm not good at doing cables," I
explained.  "And I wanted to make sure I wasn't just intentionally
sabotaging my attempts so I could get out of it.  I put a lot of time
and work into it."  Marissa smirked, undoubtedly remembering how much
time it took me to assemble the monstrosity under our bar table on
Sunday night.  "I kind of want to just hand it over to you, and make
you, like, the Vice President of cable management."

Marissa paused and narrowed her eyes at me.  "Why just the vice
president?" she replied.

After hanging the glowing blue halo behind our dining room (and doing
a quick Internet speedtest from outside on our deck, which delighted
me), we convened on the couch to watch a movie.  Marissa picked the
original /Alien/, which was a fine choice.  Being a movie we've seen
numerous times together, we felt comfortable chatting, browsing the
Internet, and petting the dogs.  It was a great evening.

That's what I got today.  I hope you all have a wonderful day.

*** 2020-01-15 Wednesday taco tuesday, pasta disagreements, and bath time dancing

Dear Journal,

Well, good morning, everyone.  Thanks for stopping by my journal this
morning.  I hope you're feeling well-rested and ready to attack this
bright, chilly Wednesday.  As for me, I'm feeling grateful to finally
have a regular-feeling day under my belt for this week.  Tuesday was
absolutely normal.  I woke up on time, let the dogs out, had a cup of
coffee while I got my notes together for my journal entry, took a
shower, got changed, cranked out a journal entry, and jumped on the 8
o'clock bus just as it was turning left onto East Washington.  At
work, my team postponed our Monday morning team meeting, so I barely
felt like I missed anything from the day before.

I spent the rest of the morning working on a document when my coworker
Alex messaged me about lunch.  Earlier that morning, he told me he
wanted to talk work stuff, and I suggested a lunch date.  As we got up
to get our coats, we simultaneously remembered it was Tuesday - /Taco/
Tuesday.  "We can't waste a Taco Tuesday," said Alex.

Bundled up, we briskly paced up the square to Bell Air.  The place was
just about empty.  "You think we'll get in?" I joked.  Alex asked for
a table for two.  "And make it the most romantic table you have," he
added.

After ordering a beer and getting a basket of chips, we did some work
talk.  Alex is our team's technical lead, and while I don't officially
report to him as a manager, as I do to Heath, he serves as our team's
guide and tiebreaker in all technical matters.  I think he's kind of
like the oracle in /The Matrix/ - he provides direction without
dispensing authority.  He asked me about my goals for the team, and
where I pictured myself heading.  We peppered in plenty of jokes about
secretly finding ways to shed responsibility at work, or giving up on
all technology to work the rest of our days as fish mongers or
farmers.

"Alright, work talk is officially done," said Alex before beginning a
new topic.  "So what are those types of drums where it's like rubber
or plastic instead of a drum?" he asked.

"Ah, those are electric kits.  I've never had a set, but they are a
lot of fun to play with at guitar center."  Mentioning guitar center
piqued his interest.  "So at guitar center, they pretty much let you
do whatever you want without buying anything?" he asked.

"Oh yeah," I replied.  "They just hand you a pair of sticks and let
you go to town.  And those guys are in that room all day, everyday, so
it takes a lot to annoy them.  We should go screw around with
instruments at guitar center sometime, I love doing that."

Alex leaned back in thought.  "You know we could make a whole day of
this - just trying things without buying them.  We could go to a
dealership and test drive a really nice car, then go to guitar center
and play a bunch of instruments. Then..."  His voice trailed off,
trying to think of another example.

"Try on a wedding dress?" I suggested.  Alex laughed while taking a
sip of water.

We wrapped up lunch and walked back to the office.  I worked for a
little longer, then I had another one on one with my manager, Heath.
He asked the usual check-in questions, and followed up on his book
recommendation.  "Are you still reading that difficult conversations
book?" he asked.

"Actually yeah.  I have one chapter left.  I have a tough time
finishing books, so it really says something that I'm actually going
to finish this one." I replied.  It's true, once I feel like I get the
gist of a book, it's hard for me to find the motivation to read to the
last page.

"The book is really compelling," I continued.  "Now I think about it
so much, it's become a challenge to make the words and ideas sound
like my own when I put them into practice."  Heath nodded along.

That's been true for this book, dealing with conflict, dealing with my
anger, and in any other way I've worked on myself.  People might
notice that you're trying to do something different.  People you deal
with might feel like you're coaching them, analyzing them, or reading
something out of a book, and that can be off-putting.  Learning a new
perspective is only half the battle.  The other half is implementing
the perspective in your day to day life, and getting people to trust
that you're not just using them to practice something.

I worked through the rest of the afternoon, then booted off my laptop
to jump on the bus.  Back at home, I retrieved Rodney from his bedroom
so we could go to Hy-Vee.  On the drive over, Rodney told me about his
day.  He went with mom to Canine Sports Zone, and Shawna's dad showed
him some of the tools in his shop.

We shopped, eventually ending up in the pasta section.  Rodney and I
get in disagreements over pasta, and sometimes it gets a little
difficult to navigate.  I wanted him to choose between spirals, wagon
wheels, and maybe even macaroni - all great choices for fazool - but
Rodney had other ideas.  "THIS ONE," he said, holding up a bag of long
spooled up egg noodles.  "No dude, not that one," I said.  "Why not?"
he fired back.  He wore a look of betrayal on his face, as if he were
thinking, "but I thought /I/ would get to pick which pasta we use."

"This one," said Rodney less enthusiastically, holding up a bag of
spirals.  "Now we're talking," I replied, dropping it in the cart.

Before leaving the store, we queued up in front of the Hy-Vee customer
service counter so I could buy a bus pass.  We ended up waiting there
for ten minutes.  Somebody in the front of the line was dealing with a
money order.  Rodney entertained himself admirably, playing with his
boots, tossing around his chocolate egg, and playing high five games
with me.

Back at home, Rodney stayed on the porch to shovel snow with his new
snow shovel while I cooked.  Marissa too lingered in the kitchen to
enjoy the free smells of bacon, onions, and garlic.  We ate dinner,
then Marissa gave Rodney a bath.  On an impulse, I wandered into the
bathroom with my guitar and started singing /Purple Haze/, using my
own Rodney bath time lyrics.  Rodney stood up and danced in the
bathtub.  Sorry, Internet - that home video is for our eyes only.

It was a good day, and I had plenty to be thankful for.  This morning,
I'm working from home.  I'm looking forward to getting some quiet time
to work while lounging around the house.  I also have my doctor's
appointment this morning, and as you could imagine, I'm eager to see
how things are doing.

Hope you all have a wonderful day.

*** 2020-01-16 Thursday clinics, pinball machines, and cardboard boxes

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope you're staying warm today.  This is
one of those mornings where I feel like I woke up on the frozen planet
of Hoth - that ice planet from /Empire Strikes Back/.  We're in the
single digits of temperature, and you can feel the brutal cold and
dryness in the air, even in doors.  Today I put on my biggest, warmest
hoodie, because I get the feeling I'm going to need it.

This morning I'm feeling pretty good in both mind and body.  I saw a
doctor yesterday.  After attending stand-up remotely from home, we
packed up the car and headed to the doctor's office.  A nurse checked
my weight and blood pressure.  I think now I'm at the age where I'm
just waiting for my blood pressure to become a problem, but evidently
yesterday was not the day.  I was still 120 over 80 on the nose. I
gave a sigh of relief.

When the doctor entered the examination room, his incredible stature
caught me off guard.  He must have been seven feet tall, and he
practically had to clamber into the room through the regular size
door.  He chatted with me, and explained that he was a "DOD" doctor of
osteopathy and specialized in spine manipulation.  I told him about my
history, when I get spasms, and what makes them worse.  He spent a few
minutes feeling around my back while I lied face down on the table.
"I think these are the guys that are spasming," he said touching the
tender muscles on my back right behind my rib cage.  He gently pushed
them to the left and to the right.  "That's actually causing a bit of
pain, and it's reminiscent of what a back spasm feels like, if that
makes any sense."

He offered to set up another appointment for a full back manipulation
treatment.  He explained that unlike occupation therapy or physical
therapy, these treatments are things you only need to get occasionally
when flair ups occur, like after the holidays or a long road trip.
This delighted me.  More OT appointments would be disappointing, and I
was happy to learn about this new track.

So things are looking up in the back spasm front.  I have an
appointment two weeks from now, and in the meantime he told me to pick
up some magnesium, which may also help with the spasms.  "People
usually take it to help with constipation, so you may get some
diarrhea at first."  Later in the car, Marissa and I joked, "just keep
eating bowls of magnesium and ibuprofen until you get diarrhea, then
taper off a bit," teasing at the young Doctor's cavalier attitude
toward dosage.

All throughout the appointment, Rodney wriggled on Marissa's lap,
seemingly giving up on the back pack full of toys we brought.  Rodney
sat in Marissa's lap, her arms holding him still like a vice grip, and
his toys scattered on the floor.

We collected Rodney's toys, then jumped in the car to find somewhere
to eat.  We had driven by the Ale Asylum on the way to the clinic, and
the empty parking lot and promise of good beer beckoned me.  As we
entered and found a table in the back, the room full of pinball
machines caught Rodney's eye, and he asked to go /check 'em out/.
"Maybe after we eat, dude," I advised.

After a few sips of beer, my phone rang.  The hospital said that we
had left some toys in the examination room.  I laughed, "OK, thanks
for letting us know, we'll swing by after lunch."

It felt good to sit somewhere and chat.  Marissa and I griped about
the appetizers we ordered.  "Do you find it odd that they would season
the chips served with salsa?" I asked, holding up one of the taco
chips liberally dusted with paprika and chipotle.  "Just put all this
seasoning in the salsa, right?"  Marissa laughed.  "You should taste
the fries," she added.

We finished eating our lunch, and having some beer left I decided to
take Rodney over to the pinball machines.  Marissa slipped us some
change before we left.  I let Rodney select a machine.  He chose a
pinball machine that was monster themed, prominently featuring a very
busty lady dracula on the front, but he seemed oblivious.  We played a
few rounds of pinball.  "I've got more dollars in my purse," said
Marissa.  "I'm sure if we wanted to we could stay here all day."  I
thought about how much fun it would be to spend an entire day playing
pinball.  "We need to make that happen sometime," I said.

We swung by the clinic, where they had Rodney's forgotten truck and
helicopter neatly zipped in a biological sample bag.  The packaging
would have made you think the toys were toxic or something, and that
made me laugh as the nurse handed them to me.  We headed home, and
Rodney watched water slide videos on the couch while I worked.  He
went down for a nap, I worked the rest of the afternoon, and soon I
went down for a nap too.  My nap was glorious.  As I drifted off to
sleep upstairs, I committed to making Wednesday naps a priority.

I woke around 6:30, when I emerged to start heating up leftovers in
the kitchen.  I played some music and plated up some leftover fazool,
a pork chop, some sliced salmon, toast, and some cut up gruyere.
Watching my family quietly, but ravenously eat dinner after a deep nap
kind of reminded me of the opening scene in /Alien/ when the crew is
wolfing down breakfast after emerging from their sleep pods.

After dinner, we let Rodney play for an hour while I caught up on
chores and practiced Dutch.  Rodney's bedtime filibustering was at an
all time high last night.  He stretched out bedtime by 45 minutes,
between asking for water, asking to go potty, and asking to be tucked
in (as well as all the other animals that sleep in his room).
Finally, once he ran out of late night time wasters, Marissa and I
were free to start working on the basement.

We attacked another corner, sorting things into garbage, good will,
and things that belonged elsewhere.  It was hard work, but it felt
good.

Outside, I piled all of Marissa's extra cardboard boxes so they could
be recycled.  I joked that I was staging an intervention for her
cardboard box addiction, which would take place after we finished
cleaning.  She rolled her eyes.

After loading up the car with things to discard and donate, we crashed
on the couch.  I brought two opened beers, so clearly I was not
planning on moving from my spot on the couch any time soon.  Muscles
aching, feet throbbing, it felt so good to sit on the couch, drink
beer, and finish watching /Alien/.

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful day.

*** 2020-01-17 Friday january, runbooks, roux, and waterboarding

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  From the bottom of my heart, I'd like to wish
you a happy Friday.  I like to make a big deal out of Friday.  Even
though it occurs every week, I think making it through another week is
always something worth celebrating.

Another week in January, no less.  Isn't January brutal?  There's
nothing to look forward to in January.  The weather punishes you for
going outside with biting wind and treacherous ice on your stairs.
Your car takes longer to warm up, and ice and salt collects around
your wheels.  In season fruits like tomatoes and watermelon are a
distant memory, and you really have nothing to look forward to - and
yet you have to carry forward all the commitments you made on January
first.  Maybe you've committed to eating healthy.  Maybe you've
committed to drinking less alcohol.  Maybe you committed to picking up
a new skill or hobby, and in this time of January it seems you have to
stare it in the face and have to ask, "Is this really something I can
do."  Anyone can commit to anything during the Holidays.  January
sucks because you actually have to follow through with these things.
So I celebrate Fridays.  We made it through another work week.  Our
society is still functioning, and we can all relax this weekend before
trying again on Monday.

At work, I finally wrapped up the document I was working on.  I don't
know if I mentioned this yet, but I was preparing a /runbook/ for a
test we'll be executing today.  A "runbook" is kind of an industry
term for an instruction sheet intended for someone who is already
familiar with the overall process, so it's going to be skimpy on the
context and explanations, but curt and copy-paste friendly.  Later
this afternoon (on a Friday night of all times), one of my teammates
will sign on line to intentionally take down our service in our
isolated staging environment.  He'll run the commands right out of my
runbook while communicating to a number of other teams throughout our
company so they have a chance to see how their service tolerates the
outage.  And if I did my job right, he can do so while barely paying
attention.  It's a Friday night, after all, I think he deserves that
much.

But needless to say, I was proud of the completeness of the document.
My role at my company has changed over time, and I've had to walk
through a lot of shoddily documented procedures for services which I
wasn't even aware of.  I'm more specialized these days, but my long
tenure as a general /operations/ person allowed me to develop good
taste when it comes to writing instructions.  Keep things simple.
don't explain /why/ - stick to /how/.  Make it easy to copy-paste -
but also make it easy to pull apart and figure out where something
went wrong.

Spending the morning typing, my back was starting to feel a little
sore, so I went for a walk.  It was far too cold to walk outside, so
instead I went for a stroll around the office.  I walked up and down
the stairwell, walked along the outside windows, and stopped to stare
at the capitol building.

I worked through the afternoon, then joined some of my coworkers on
the eighth floor for happy hour.  I finished a half pale ale while we
chatted, then left to catch my bus.  Back at home, Marissa took me up
on my offer to go to Hy-Vee together as a family.  "I just cleaned our
fridge last night, and we could use some new snacks," I said, knowing
that there was little chance a second trimester pregnant lady would
turn down that offer.  "Can you drive?  I want to eat a muffin in the
car," she negotiated.

We strolled around Hy-Vee, picking up potatoes, kale, bacon, and
mushrooms.  I usually make stamppot with sausage, but following
Marissa's wishes, I decided to try it with mushrooms instead.  Back at
home, after unloading the car, I got to work peeling potatoes, slicing
bacon, and washing kale leaves.  Rodney helped in the kitchen too,
scooting our sturdy kitchen ladder over to the stove where I had some
butter melting for a roux.  "Now you need to keep the roux moving," I
warned him, wrapping his small hand around the whisk.  "Keep it going
until it's the color of coffee."  I knew there was zero chance he was
following along, but I think he took to the sense of urgency.  He
wildly flung the whisk around the pan while I supervised.

We killed the heat on the roux and shifted focus to drain the
potatoes.  I handed Rodney the potato masher, and he looked visibly
relieved to work with things he understood.  "Just smash the potatoes,
dude. There's no wrong way to do this," I said.  Rodney wildly slammed
the masher against the bottom of the Dutch oven, sending some chunks
of moist potato flying across the stove.  "That's no big deal dude,
just mash 'em," I goaded.

We sat around the table and ate dinner.  It had been a long week for
me and Marissa.  We quietly wolfed down our dinner.  Rodney was the
only one at the table keeping a steady conversation going, delving
into his favorite topic of taking his cousins to a water park.

After dinner, I gave Rodney a bath, changed him into his pajamas, and
read him a story.  Just before bed, he asked for a glass of water.
Fearing we were about to begin another long round of bedtime
filibustering, I urged him to stay in his room.  "Just stay here -
I'll get you a cup of water and you can drink it in bed," I said
leaving his room.  Rodney hesitantly reached for the glass and swiftly
tipped it at his mouth, but being in bed, he miscalculated the angle
of his head and sent water all over his head.  Tears were had, but
after a quick pajama swap and some bed sheet re arrangement, we were
back in business.

"Did he accidentally waterboard himself again?" Marissa asked as I
trudged down the stairs into our living room and slinked onto the
couch.  "Yeah... poor guy," I replied.

I spent the rest of the evening on the couch.  As I lie under the
blanket, it was almost as if the tired muscles in my back were singing
praises, knowing their job was done for the day.  Ziggy climbed into
my lab, and I coaxed her under the blanket with me for a long nap.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2020-01-18 Saturday deep dish, taxi driver, and high maintenance sore back guy

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  I hope you took your time
today, made a good breakfast, and have a mix of fun and productive
things planned.  I spent this morning cleaning up the kitchen,
listening to a podcast, and cooking breakfast.

Low priority, trivial incidents swallowed yesterday's work day.  My
team helped out with a production incident in the morning, and there
was another in the afternoon before we went home for the day, and
between the two, Nate and I joined the other two Madison foundation
teams for lunch at the Old Fashioned.  We shared a pitcher of /Spruce
Juice/ - a delicious, unique IPA that tastes like pine needles that we
save for Fridays.

As the weather took a downward turn, the office started to thin out,
and I took the bus home a little earlier than normal.  Getting home, I
left Rodney to sleep, made a quick batch of pizza dough, and decided
to brave the adverse weather alone to pick up the rest of the
ingredients from Hy-Vee.  Truthfully, the roads weren't that bad.
Less than an inch of wet snow coated the roads, but evidently that was
enough snow to scare everyone into operating there car as if it was a
Zamboni.  Don't get me wrong - I think you should drive carefully.
But if it takes you the entire green light to accelerate through an
intersection, you're probably doing more harm than good.

After returning home with the groceries, I unpacked everything and
started making pizza.  It was a good night to eat pizza, but
truthfully, I just wanted another low-stakes trial run of my deep dish
recipe.  I've talked it up to my family, and my sister's family is
staying with us next week.  I wanted to experiment with adding more
cheese to the pizza.  The pizza tasted just fine, but structurally it
was a bit of a mess.  That third layer of cheese was too much for the
pizza to handle, and much like Icarus who flew too close to the sun,
the results were a melty mess.

After dinner, I practiced Dutch.  Having only four more sections to do
before completing the second "castle" of duolingo, I doubled down with
an extra long session, wrapping up /location/ and passing the chapter
final exam.  This evening, I'll be 190 days in, and needless to say
I'm feeling proud.  Learning a new language has challenged me, and on
any given day I might feel unstoppable reflecting on how much progress
I've made, or also I might feel hopeless looking ahead at how much
there is to learn.  But through it all, the most important thing I've
learned is enjoy where I'm at.

Marissa put Rodney to bed, and afterwards, we retreated to the living
room to play some Nazi Zombies.  I put on my robe, brewed a cup of
tea, and built what I'd have to describe as a throne of supportive
pillows.  "You're like high maintenance sore back guy," Marissa
teased.  I decided to lean into my new persona for the evening.  Every
twenty minutes, I would pause the video game mid-carnage and announce
/I REQUIRE A SIP OF TEA/, then looking as posh as possible,
lethargically roll over to grab my mug for a dainty sip.

By the third game, pinned down by the eight wave of zombies with sub
par weapons, Marissa expressed doubts.  "This doesn't look good," she
said without taking her eyes off the TV.  "This is too much for just
sawed off shotguns."

"It's OK," I said while strafing backwards waiting for my sluggish gun
to reload, "if we die, that just means we can give up and watch the
rest of Taxi Driver instead."  Marissa laughed.

We eventually fell victim to the 9th wave of Zombies, and as promised,
put on the rest of our movie.  I poured some tequila.  As the credits
rolled by, Marissa and I discussed the movie.

"So...," I started pensively.  "I think it's generally accepted that
the ending of this movie didn't really happen.  I think he actually
just went on a shooting spree at the political rally, but what we were
watching at the end is kind of like a fantasy."

"I was getting that sense," Marissa added.

"I think that's what the jazz music was supposed to symbolize - that
told us we were just watching what was happening in his head." I
continued.

And the unreliable narrator aspect of Taxi Driver is so subtle and
well done, in contrast to /The Joker/.  During the fantasy scenes, the
camera angles are melodramatic, and the dialog is a tad cheesy.  Every
other character kind of sounds like they're being voiced by Travis
Bickle.  I had suspected /Joker/ was heavily inspired by /Taxi
Driver/, but now that we've watched both more recently, I'm convinced
the /Joker/ movie was really just a bad rip-off.  /Joker/ tries to
incorporate the same unreliable narrator angle, the charming but
creepy protagonist, the obsession and loneliness.  It's just done so
much better in /Taxi Driver/.  After discussing the movie, we wandered
around different YouTube videos until we couldn't stay awake, then
went to bed.

This morning, I'm finishing up a second pot of coffee before I head
out into the tundra to shovel snow with Rodney.  Hearing him run
around and throw his ball around the living room, I can imagine that
he has some extra energy to burn.  Later today, we're going bowling
with Alex and Cassie.  We're excited to introduce them to our family's
new favorite way to spend Saturday evenings.

This morning, while looking up the recipe for a Dutch Baby, I also got
excited about the idea of porting my cooking recipes to an online
cookbook.  There are some fantastic tools meant to generate static
websites for technical documentation, and I think that would make for
a slick looking cookbook and a great Saturday afternoon sized side
project.  I'll find some time to hack on it today and share it here if
anything comes out of it.

I'm feeling content today.  Spending last night on the couch as /high/
/maintenance sore back guy/ has paid off.  I'm feeling loose,
energetic, and ready to screw around in the fresh snow with my son.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Happy Saturday!

*** 2020-01-19 Sunday cookbooks, snowballs, and bowling parties

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're having a great Sunday thus far.
We're having an easy morning, waking up with plenty of time to get to
the eleven o'clock church service, but I'm sure that by the time I'm
finished writing this entry, that will no longer be true.  Rodney is
currently chilling on the couch with a bowl of peanut butter captain
crunch and a glass of juice.  As per usual, he's watching water slide
videos.  Getting him out of bed this morning, he was still practically
glowing from our /bowling party/ last night with our friends Alex and
Cassie.  We kept him up until 9:30 PM, which in toddler time must be
the same as 3 in the morning, so it's no wonder he was still talking
about it when he woke up.  "Rodney loves bowling parties," he said
while sleepily rubbing his eyes.

I should have probably started writing this entry sooner, but I got
distracted by my new side project.  Yesterday morning I started
tinkering around with creating an online cookbook, so I've been
on-and-off distracted by it since.  I ported four of my recipes from
my personal notes so far, and I can't stop looking at the final
result.  I fired off a link to Alex yesterday, and we chatted about it
at the bowling alley.  I see this as a great opportunity for me to
clean up my old recipes and standardize them with a clean format.
It's got me pretty excited.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I spent some time hacking on my
online cookbook, but I also spent a good amount of time shoveling
snow, and later playing in the snow with Rodney.  Yesterday's snow,
slightly damp from the sun and warmer air, made for perfect snowballs,
so not wanting to waste the opportunity, I took a break and pelted the
side of our house with Rodney.  There's few things in life that are
more satisfying than a good snowball exploding on a brick wall, right?

For lunch time, we grazed on leftovers from our fridge, heating up
stammpot and pizza.  Marissa announced she was "going to do a brunch
thing," sitting down with a bagel and grapefruit.  "More like a
pregnancy craving thing," I teased.

After putting Rodney down for a nap, Marissa and I hung out on the
couch and watched some sketch re runs.  We wouldn't be meeting Alex
and Cassie until six, giving us plenty of time to nap and relax.

Finally, it came time for us to head out.  We jumped in the car and
drove to our bowling alley, where Alex and Cassie were waiting for us
hanging out at the bar.  They looked pretty content having drinks and
watching a boxing match on TV.  "Bowling alley bars are a great place
to hide out," I later remarked to Alex.  "They're very relaxing in
their own way."

We rented a lane, each of us giving up one shoe as collateral.  As the
guy went in the back to put our shoes away, we remarked at how strange
of a system it was.  Who's going to steal a pair of old bowling shoes?
How would having your shoes help the situation?  If I walked out with
their rental bowling shoes, would they start renting out my shoes to
offset the theft?

I sat down in front of the dim kiosk to punch in everyone's names.  I
chose silly bowling names for everyone, giving Marissa "Pregnant
Lady", which the system hilariously abbreviated at /P Lady/.  We put
in for an order of pizzas, then perused the racks for our own bowling
balls.  "I have this anxiety that whatever bowling ball I pick is
going to rip off my thumb," Marissa shared.  Cassie's eyes widened -
"Me too!"

"Well you know how getting your thumb ripped off is," I added.  "After
it happens the first time, it's not so scary any more.  It's part of
bowling."

We played, taking a long break to eat pizza and refill on beer.  I was
playing pretty terribly, barely keeping up with Rodney's score.  I
felt kind of silly bowling a low 80 on the first game after bragging
that our new January weekend tradition of bowling has made me stepped
up my game.  For whatever reason, the mojo wasn't there.  I leveraged
the situation to make Rodney laugh, throwing the ball through my legs
and trying to put as much spin on the ball as possible.

In the middle of our last game, the lights dimmed and the bowling
alley switched on their /cosmic bowling/ mode.  We had never stayed at
the alley past nine, so you could imagine our surprise learning that
all along we had been missing Saturday cosmic bowling by a mere half
hour.  The disco lights and loud music gave a tired Rodney second
wind.  He relished the last few frames, dancing, crawling on his
belly, and running around with his arms extended like an airplane
yelling /LEEEEET'S GOOOOOO/, in his own /Dude Perfect/ style.  He
looked purely in his element.

Heading home, Rodney contested going to bed without a story, but soon
after his head hit the pillow, he was asleep.  Marissa and I were free
to catch up on cleaning the house, and even empty a few project cards
from the board.  We wrapped up the night on the couch with a new movie
pick.  Marissa, continuing her march through the Alien movies, picked
/Aliens/.  Before we started the movie, we spent a few minutes on the
couch throwing out fake titles in a dramatic voice, like /Aliens: More
Aliens/, /Alien...s/, and /Alien: You Though We Were Done?/.

Today, after church we're going to go out to lunch, then swing by the
grocery store to pick up food for dinner.  For playoff game day, we're
going to make [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3GN_W2kVrA][Chef John's Buffalo Chicken Wings in a Jar]], which sounds
just perfect for snacking while, in all likelihood, watching a team I
don't care about beat a team I don't like in the NFC championship.  Go
49'ers (I guess).  In all seriousness, from the little I've seen of
the 49'ers this season, they are terrifyingly talented and no doubt
deserve a super bowl win.  Even better if they eliminate the Packers
on the way.

Hope you all have a great day today.

*** 2020-01-20 Monday bbq, naps, projects, and something crazy

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you are having a relaxing day off thus
far.  With the combination of working hard in the basement last night,
staying up late, and sleeping in on my day-off, I'm feeling a little
groggy this morning.  I spent the last hour or so cleaning up the
kitchen and putting Rodney's clothes away, and that seems to have
helped wake me up to the point where I can write a coherent journal
entry.  Sometimes you need an hour or so of menial tasks to help
metabolize the morning coffee and wake up, you know? 

Today I have a day off work for Martin Luther King Jr. Day, but I'm
also on-call as of 8 AM this morning.  I'm feeling pretty fortune that
my on-call rotation landed on this week.  I make a little extra on
holidays, as they count as weekend hours, and not to mention I have
one less day to work our support queue, which I only do during
business hours.

This morning, I toasted some Eggo waffles for Rodney and Marissa, who
rolled out of bed at almost the exact same time I did.  After
breakfast, Rodney led Marissa by the hand to the living room, where
they "played videogames", or more accurately, watched YouTube videos
of video games with unplugged Xbox controllers in their laps.

Yesterday was a pretty great day as well.  After church, we decided to
try out a new BBQ place on the west side of town, and we had a pretty
good experience.  The food was delicious, and after returning home,
the smoked brisket, ribs, and nibbles of Rodney's pulled pork sent me
into a full blown food coma.  I changed into something comfy and
napped on the couch with Ziggy while we watched the Chiefs vs Titans
game on TV.

After a nap, I got Rodney out of bed and took him to Hy-Vee to pick up
dinner.  I was planning on an easy night of pork chops with apple
juice pan sauce, but I also picked up some chicken thighs so I could
try out a new dip.  Hy-Vee was practically emptied due to the Packers
playoff game, so Rodney and I could afford to take our time.  Before
leaving, he selected a chocolate egg from the candy rack.

Back at home, Rodney and Marissa hung out in the dining room watching
the football game while I prepared dinner.  I was much more pleased
with the pork chop glaze this time around.  Last week making this
meal, I didn't let the sauce reduce enough, and it looked more like a
dressing.  I didn't make the same mistake last night.  I simmered it
in my pan until it could all practically fit on a spoon, then whisked
in some cold chunks of butter.  The final product looked like melted
caramel, but it tasted like pork and apples.

We let Rodney watch the rest of the football game with me, then
Marissa put him to bed.  After splitting off to catch up on our
chores, we reconvened in the kitchen to attack the basement stairs,
which was the last project card we had planned for the week.

In our project system, every Sunday we drag a new set of cards to the
TODO column.  The goal is only add to the board what you think you can
get done in a week, and we use sizes to estimate how much effort each
card is.  A /small/ is about an hour of work - like last night,
throwing away all the garbage at the bottom of the stairs.  A /medium/
might be a few hours of work, and a /large/ usually spans over a day.
At the end of the week on Sunday night, we tally up the cards we
completed - smalls get 1 point, mediums 2 points, and larges 3 points.

Last night, after finishing the basement, Marissa and I met at the
board in our bedroom and tallied up the cards.  We finished 13 points
this past week, and the week before was 11.  "Don't forget, this is
water slide weekend, so we might not have as much time as last week,"
Marissa reminded me.  We adjusted the total planned work for the week,
leaving room for the fun weekend.  That's a great example of what
advantage we get from tracking projects with points.

Before heading to the couch for the rest of the night, I stopped by
the kitchen to finish making my dip.  Before heading down into the
basement, I seared some chicken thighs and gently simmered them in
some buffalo sauce before allowing them to cool.  I would split apart
the meat with my fingers, then reduce down the buffalo sauce to a
syrup and add that as well before chilling the shredded meat in the
fridge overnight.  I had agreed to only use our choice mild barbecue
sauce, but after tasting the final product, I couldn't resist throwing
in some /Shaquanda/ hot sauce as well.  What they don't know won't
hurt them, right?

We retired to the couch to watch a little more of /Aliens/.  The
further we watch, the more Marissa and I are convinced we had never
actually scene this second movie in the series.  I would have
certainly remembered it being this bad.  In the movie, Ripley goes
with an elite squad of space Marines to go handle an alien outbreak on
the colony, but these space Marines practically act like a high school
football team.  They complain, interrupt their officer all the time,
and refuse to take anything seriously.  "Wouldn't they just fire these
people?  Isn't this the Marines?" I questioned.  "Why are they chewing
gum, throwing things, and acting like kids stuck in after school
detention?"

So that's what I got today.  As a family, we agreed to lay low at
least until lunch, reserving the afternoon for - Marissa's words -
/something crazy/.  What does crazy mean?  I floated the idea of
bowling, but perhaps that's not exotic enough for a Monday afternoon
without work.  Rodney seems to be in a video game mood today, so the
arcade or Dave & Buster's is always an option.  Or maybe we'll just
hang out outside and pelt the side of the house with snowballs.
Truthfully, we could do anything on this day off - the only way to
waste it is to do something we don't enjoy.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Happy MLK day, and hope you
do something you enjoy.

*** 2020-01-21 Tuesday snuggling, cleanliness, energy, and pinball

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday, and welcome back to the work
week.  This morning was kind of a strange morning - I woke up when it
was still dark outside, and assuming I had more hours of sleep, I got
up to get a drink of water, running into a dog crate on the way to the
bathroom.  The clattering metal scared the dogs out of bed, then
seeing me walking around, they immediately assumed it was their
breakfast time.  So they excitedly followed me as I sleepily trudged
to the bathroom.  Before climbing into bed, I saw on my phone that it
was 6:10 AM - a mere twenty minutes before my alarm normally wakes me
for the workday.  In defiance to Tuesday mornings everywhere, I gently
dragged Ziggy from her spot at the foot of our bed all the way to my
side, sharing my pillow with her.  I spent the duration of my twenty
minutes of freedom snuggling with her.  Sure - I could have gotten up
early, and maybe did something artsy like sip coffee and stare out the
window at the sun coming up.  But time spent with your dogs is never
time wasted.

But now the time for snuggling has ended, and I'm back in the swing of
things.  Walking around my house this morning, I couldn't help but
feel satisfied.  Marissa and I spent some of last night catching up on
chores and tidying up the house, and that time was well spent.  This
morning, basking in the cleanliness of our kitchen, living room,
dining room, and even our basement, it all made me think of a new
Dutch phrase I learned earlier this week: /Alles staat op zijn plek/,
meaning /Everything stands in its place/.  Everything was right where
it should be, and even though I haven't even left the house yet, I
can't wait to return.

And even though we have a shorter week ahead of us, it will be a busy
one, and I feel the need to savor every minute I feel motivated to do
something.  Speaking of winter more generally, finding energy to do
things is practically impossible.  There's so much to do, and all the
while every fiber of your mammalian body is just telling you to load
up on carbs and sleep.  That's at least how I've felt all winter -
like a reluctant, hungry bear.  So I think it's pretty rare that I'm
feeling energetic.  I wish I could save off that feeling for later.

Yesterday was a pretty nice day.  Coming down the stairs after writing
my morning journal entry, Marissa pointed out "when I said something
/crazy/, I meant like cleaning the basement or something."  I laughed,
then shrugged my shoulders.  "Well, I promised we'd do something fun.
So which would you rather do?"  We went with something fun, of course.
Marissa caught a baby cold, and for some reason schlepping trash out
of our basement didn't feel like a good use of a Monday off work.

We spent the rest of the day lounging around the house, and I carved
out time to work on my first project card that involved code.  I
modified our chores tracking tool to send morning reminders,
summarizing all the chores that were due that day.  Believe it or not,
on some days you're too busy to even check a website, so I could
appreciate the need for a friendly proactive reminder.  Marissa and I
had also joked that our chores tracker is kind of like a manager
bearing down on us.  "Boss is really giving it to us today, huh?" I'd
remark while checking the site at night.  Perhaps now that it sends us
messages in the morning, we can build on that lore.

We all took a long nap in the afternoon.  I dosed off on the couch
until dark, then we got our things together to go to the Ale Asylum.
And as soon as I uttered the phrase /pinball machines/ within earshot
of Rodney's room, he sprung out of bed.  /This/ was the crazy thing we
had settled on for our day-off.

At the Ale Asylum, after we ate dinner, Marissa handed Rodney five
single dollar bills, which he carefully folded and slipped into his
front jean pocket.  It was so funny to me, because even though the
pinball machines were twenty feet from where we were sitting, he still
felt the need to secure the money as if he were going on a long
excursion.  Rodney led me by the hand to the dark gaming corner, lined
wall to wall with blinking lights and reverberating with the exciting
sound of shaking metal and electronic melodies.  Rodney stood before
the machines, carefully selecting one to spend the bills stowed away
in his pocket.  A group of older guys occupied a Stranger Things
pinball machine to our right.  A guy waiting with them looked at
Rodney and smiled.  "Don't overthink it buddy, just go with the one
that has the most lights," he laughed.  Rodney pulled up a chair to a
Batman pinball machine pushed all the way against the wall.  He
slipped a dollar into the front, and off we went.

Marissa closed out our bill and joined us.  We played pinball for
another half hour, and I even got some cash of my own.  And something
that really confounded me - Rodney scored much higher than I did, even
when I was on my own machine trying my best.  Pinball is fickle like
that I guess.  Maybe I was overthinking it.  Maybe pinball is one of
those things better approached from the perspective of a child - just
follow the lights.

I think that's a good note to end on.  I hope you all have an amazing
week.  As for me, we are approaching the greatly anticipated Water
Slides with Cousins weekend, so I'm sure there will be no shortage of
excitement and motivation to get through this short, packed week.
What are you looking forward to this weekend?

Thanks for reading, and happy Tuesday.

*** 2020-01-22 Wednesday work, football, steamed fish, and jenga

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope this morning finds you well.  I'm
currently upstairs in our bedroom at the computer, having just changed
into a clean pair of sweatpants and my favorite hoodie.  It's a great
day to hide away at home and quietly catch up on things.  Yesterday it
felt great to be back at work, and now that Fong has returned from
China, our team is even whole again.  But the business of the work
week is already bearing down on me.  We have our first Kids Code
session tomorrow, and between new projects, end of the quarter stuff,
meetings, and working our support ticket queue, it's been a lot to
keep track of.  I'll tell you this, it's been another one of those
weeks where it feels like I'm making up for having off on Monday.
Work always finds its way back to you, doesn't it?

So I'm going to keep taking it in stride.  I'm going to stay
organized, break the work up into reasonable chunks, take good notes,
and drink plenty of coffee along the way.  This morning, I'm drinking
an accidental mix of Fire Department coffee cut with some Starbucks
Breakfast blend, since I was at the bottom of the bag.  Whatever it
is, it's really hitting the spot.  I wonder if I accidentally invented
some new perfect blend of coffee.

/Sip/.  You know what else helps take the edge off of an intense
workday?  A nice lunch.  Yesterday I walked over to Starbucks and
bought a chicken & bacon paninni.  Back at the office, I dumped a
little bag of baby carrots and pita chips on the side, then took it
back to my desk where I enjoyed it from the privacy of my headphones.
I caught up on my YouTube channels, watching a video about the Bears'
top defensive plays of this past year.  I guess you could say this is
officially my first "off-season" as a football plan, and it's not as
boring as I thought it would be.  There's still plenty of staff moves,
interviews, and breakdowns floating around to keep things interested.
And of course, there's also the Superbowl.  Speaking of which, while
clicking around on reddit, I discovered that Jimmy G, the quarterback
who will be starting for the San Francisco 49ers in the super bowl
grew up in the suburbs of Chicago, and even played football for
Rolling Meadows high school.  So I guess it's totally possible that
I've waited in line behind him at a Panera or something, or maybe even
made him a drink at Starbucks while he was visiting home.  I think
that seals the deal for me, I'm going to have to go for the niners.
The Mahomes fanboys were really starting to get to me anyway.

Nearing the end of my lunch break, I wrapped things up with a diet
coke while I continued to peruse YouTube, this time in search of a
recipe to try.  Chef John has a "New Year, New You" playlist comprised
of healthy foods to try in January, and a roasted cabbage and
whitefish recipe of his caught my eye.  I watched the video twice,
taking down a quick grocery list and some notes.

I wrapped up work, then jumped on the bus homeward.  As I usually do,
I reviewed the grocery list I made.  I could see that Marissa added
some items as well.

When I returned home, Marissa was on the couch with Ziggy.  I could
tell from the look on her face that she was still recovering from a
cold.  Ziggy, undoubtedly sensing her discomfort, had wrapped herself
around Marissa like a scarf.  "Can I get you anything?  And Is Ziggy
close enough to you?"  Marissa cracked a tired smile.  I trudged up
the stairs wearing my boots to scoop Rodney out of bed.  He was
waiting by his door, peering into the hallway.  He ran out to greet
me.

Rodney and I left to pick up groceries.  Between our big tractor
themed grocery cart and my backpack, we knocked over a small tower of
energy drinks.  Two other shoppers emerged to help us clean up the
mess, and we dealt with it so quickly that there was no need for an
employee to intervene.  "Mums the word," said a lady that helped me
before leaving.  I hadn't heard that expression in a while.

Back at home, I sliced and seasoned the beautiful piece of cod we
bought, topped it with some sliced poblano peppers and ginger, and
dredged it in some soy sauce and sesame oil.  I wrapped the four
chunks of fish in steamed cabbage leaves and baked them in a buttered
casserole dish.  This was a clever recipe, because the end result is
a way to enjoy both roasted cabbage leaves /and/ steamed fish at the
same time, and they help each other out.  I cut the little pouches of
cabbage and fish free and opened them up on some white rice.  "The
fish is an A+," went Marissa's review at the table.  "But the rice..."

"The rice sucks, I know," I interrupted.  "I make terrible rice.  I've
just come to expect it at this point."

"Did you use the right rice?" asked Marissa sympathetically.

"Yep.  Same proportions too.  I just make bad rice," I assured her.
And it's true - I've come to terms with the fact that I make bad rice,
and that's just fine.  If you ask me, rice is overrated.  The fish,
steamed to flakes, a touch of spice from the peppers, sweetness from
the green onions, and just enough ginger to make your lips tingle, was
enough for me to hang my hat on, so to speak.

After dinner, we cleared the table for a quick game of Jenga.  I broke
out some Italian Ice cups I secretly stashed away in our freezer.
Marissa's eyes lit up after the first bite, and I knew we had a
inductee in the pregnancy craving hall of fame.  Rodney was especially
talkative.   It felt like the last time we played Jenga, we
practically had to watch every move he made.  Compared to this time,
strategizing and even keeping track of whose turn it was, I barely had
to pay attention to him.

"Rodney has been fun to talk to lately," Marissa said to me after
putting him to bed.  "He has lots of new phrases."

"/I gotchu momma/," I said, mimicking him.  He pulled out that phrase
while helping Marissa put the Jenga pieces away after dinner, even
after we told him to relax and just enjoy is Italian Ice.  "He's a
nice boy," I remarked.

That's what I got today.  Let's jump into this busy day together.  I'm
reminded of the inspirational speech from /Behind Enemy Lines/ where
Gene Hackman says "You still got your boots on?  Well you got it
made!"  Sitting here at home with good coffee feeling absolutely
comfortable, I have to agree that I too /have it made/.  I have
everything I need to knock out this busy Wednesday.  /Evade and
Survive/, right?

Have a great day everyone.

*** 2020-01-23 Thursday bullshit, dirty water, and working late

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  It has been an absolute
whirlwind of a work week, and right now I'm just grateful to be
feeling good, wearing clean clothes, starting a journal entry right on
time.

In short, yesterday was pretty brutal.  Questions seemed to fly at me
from all different directions for the duration of the day.  Working
from home upstairs, I was so distracted, I almost forgot to come
downstairs to help Rodney pull his pants back up after he used the
potty in the living room.  He has no problem pulling them down, but
when it comes time to pull them back up, he needs help getting the
waistband of the /ondergoed en broek/ lined up, and as a result the
poor guy was just patiently watching TV with his pants down, waiting
for me to come help him.  I worked the rest of the morning from the
living room couch, just so I'd be more in tune with underwear related
needs until Marissa got home.

By the time she returned at 11:30, my head was already swimming, and
nothing sounded sweeter than shutting my laptop for a beer and a slice
of pizza.  Shortly after, we packed the dogs away, tired from agility
and undoubtedly grateful for a nap, then we jumped in the car and
headed to Ian's.  We found our usual table in the back.  I sat there
quietly, watching Rodney gingerly take bits from a slice of pepperoni
pizza that was larger than his plastic plate.  Wednesday pizza lunch
clears my head.  Having finished our pizza, Rodney got up to grab a
bag of free-to-use toys off the wall, and I got a second beer.
Marissa and I just sleepily stared at each other, smirking whenever
the table full of high schoolers beside us said something loud enough
for us to hear.  They were talking about an upcoming prom, and just in
case you all were wondering, the dress code isn't like an official
thing.  You can go with a theme, or just do something totally chill
like all black with a tie.

Finishing up our lunch, I was looking forward to putting in an honest
afternoon of work before once again shutting my laptop.  I was already
day dreaming about shopping at Hy-Vee and making something new for
dinner.

Around five o'clock, I got pulled into a work incident.  This wasn't a
public incident, so sadly, I can't share the details, but the
important part was that it required me to work later than I had
planned.  With Rodney and Marissa napping, I sat in my bedroom busily
scripting and talking on slack, watching the hours tick away.
"There's five o'clock" I thought.  "Normally I'd be at Hy-Vee".  More
work.  "There's six o'clock", I thought.  "I'd be getting home and
starting on dinner right now.

I shot Marissa a text message, asking her to get Rodney up and meet me
in the bedroom for a family meeting.  Moments later, a very sleepy and
confused Rodney and Marissa wandered into the bedroom.  Marissa
surprised to see me still working, sat down on the bed.

I explained to them that I had to work late, and though I would
probably wrap it up just in time for dinner, we'd have to figure
something out to do instead.  Marissa ordered Portillo's.  The whole
thing probably didn't warrant a /family meeting/, but it doesn't take
much to rattle me, and I felt the need to get everybody in the room to
come up with a new plan for the evening.

We finally called the all clear at 7.  "Just in time for dinner," I
thought.  The evening was already steering back on the rails.  I
joined Marissa and Rodney at the dinner table, ate a hot dog in four
bites, then nibbled on fries while we chatted.

Marissa agreed to put Rodney to bed so I could catch up on chores.  I
hadn't used the kitchen all day, so all I had to do was clean the
fridge, wipe out the microwave, and clean the stove.  By 9:00, Marissa
and I were ready to head into the basement.  I laid on the bed,
wearing my boots and apron, for an extra second, then after a big
stretch and yawn, stood up and trudged down the stairs.

Our cleaning session had a rocky start.  Immediately Marissa noticed
dirty bater bubbling up through the basement drain.  We stood there
confused for a moment before Marissa sent me upstairs to fetch the
drain snake and plunger.  Doing our best not to think about the smell,
I stood by while Marissa rolled up her sleeves and coaxed the water
back down the drain.  

"So I googled it," I said, breaking the silence.  "It says this can
sometimes happen after a lot of rain - the city sewer system can get
backed up I think."  

Marissa peered up at me, holding her black and grey stained hands away
from her.  "We probably had a lot of snow melt.  It was a warm day,"
she replied.

Despite the rocky start, we found our momentum again and resumed
gutting the back corner of the basement.  We went through clothes, old
house decorations, and baby toys.  For each time we were on the fence
about keeping or donating something, I'd repeat the phrase "It's more
expensive to keep it then to get rid of it."  Marissa nodded each
time, as if I were making a good point, but trudging up and down the
basement stairs, making trips to the shed and trunk of the car, I had
plenty of time to come to the realization that I was full of shit and
that phrase didn't make any sense.  /It's more expensive to keep it
than to get rid of it./ It certainly sounds nice, doesn't it?  But
it's definitely bullshit.  Sometimes my ability to formulate bullshit
so naturally worries me.

We worked until 10:30 at night.  As we were walking around the
basement, the dogs joined us, as if they wanted to also bask in the
new clean basement corner.  We all went upstairs to hang on the couch
for the remainder of the night.

This morning, I'm feeling tired, but grateful I'm here where I'm
supposed to be.  I'm still feeling good, wearing a clean set of
clothes, and with my boss's blessing, I'm going to cut early today in
lieu of comp time for working late last night.  I'll use the time to
shut my eyes on the couch, pick up some groceries, and cook a healthy
meal before heading into Kids Code tonight.  And after it all, we have
Thursday night.  Thursday night is glorious, isn't it?  On Thursday,
the only thing standing between you and the weekend is a measly
Friday, and as we all know, Fridays are basically weekends in work
clothes.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-01-24 Friday cashiers, seafood stew, and kids code

Dear Journal,

Good morning, my brave weekend warriors.  I can't believe we made it
to Friday, and I can't believe that somewhere in all of this we had a
day off on Monday.  Martin Luther King Jr. Day feels like it happened
a century ago.  This week was a real slog, but as usual, I'm happy to
be here writing a crisp new journal entry at my desk - right where I'm
supposed to be.

My calendar reports that it is day 1 of 3 in /WATER SLIDE WEEKEND/.
I'm sure Rodney will be bouncing off the walls even more than he was
yesterday.  He's had some trouble grasping the difference between
future tense and past tense.  Sometimes on our way to Hy-Vee, I'll ask
"did you and momma go to Canine Sports Zone?", and he'll get
frustrated with me.  "Dad no!  Not Sports Zone.  Hy-Vee," he'll reply,
as if he's trying to snap me out of a stupor.  All that to say it will
be much easier for him to grasp "Alice is coming /Today/".

I too can't wait for water slide weekend.  Yesterday, after taking off
for the afternoon, I went to the market to pick up dinner and some
ingredients needed to make a double batch of deep dish pizza.  I had a
whole hour to kill, so I didn't even bother to make a comprehensive
grocery list, instead opting to just lazily walk up and down each
aisle, /eventually/ getting everything I needed.  Pizza is the name of
the game this evening, but last night feeling burnt out from the busy
week, I wanted to make seafood stew.  I picked up some cod, scallops,
and frozen mussels.  While checking out, the cashier commented "looks
like a special night!"  The small invasion of privacy flustered me.  I
don't like it when cashiers comment on what I'm buying, unless I
invite them to do so.  "Yeah, my sister is coming to visit, and she
wants to try my pizza," I replied, and as the words left my mouth, I
thought /What the hell does that have to do with anything?/.  The
cashier looked down at the groceries, then looked at me, brow furrowed
with concern.  Then it hit me - she assumed that I was somehow going
to make a pizza from scallops, mussels, cod, and fennel.  "Half of
this is just for tonight.  The pizza is tomorrow."  The cashier
laughed, "OK I was confused for a second there!"  You see?  This is
why we don't comment on what I'm buying.  It leads us to logistics,
and logistics make for tedious small talk.  If we had stuck to the
basics, like commenting on the weather, or even giving me crap about
the Bears logo stuck to the back of my car, we could have avoided this
whole mess.

Back at home with a whole two hours before our evening session of Kids
Code, I put on some music and got to cooking.  I cut the seafood up
into chunks and dusted it with old bay, setting it aside in the
fridge.  I sliced the fennel, garlic, and parsley.  I poured the
canned tomatoes and clam juice in a blender, and just for fun I added
a generous squirt of balsamic vinegar.  Everything was ready to go,
but it was only 4:30, so I'd have to spend the next fifteen minutes
just puttering around the kitchen keeping the stew on a simmer.

Rodney and Marissa emerged from their afternoon naps and joined me at
the table.  As Marissa and I slurped away, Rodney studied a mussel
shell at the end of his fork.  "Open it up and eat what's inside,
dude," I encouraged him.  Rodney stubbornly dropped the mussel back in
his soup and instead reached for another chunk of warm bread.

"This meal is always better than I expect it to be," said Marissa.
Her eyes widened, hearing the sharp edges of that conversation opener.
"I didn't mean that," she said back peddling.  "I mean /fish stew/
just doesn't sound like a good thing."

"No, I know what you mean," I replied.  "This is a meal for me.  I
think I like making this when I'm sad or tired, and I appreciate you
guys eating it."

I departed at 5:30 sharp for Kids Code, sloshing through wet snow and
carrying my heavy IT bin on my hip.  The /Thursday scaries/ were in
full swing.  I didn't feel like being social, and for the entire walk
over I thought about nothing but my eventual walk back to my house
that would occur two hours later.

I unpacked my stuff, set up the laptops, and introduced myself to some
new volunteers.  Kids started trickling in and began quietly working.
I greeted everyone, welcomed them back from the long holiday break,
and off we went working on games.  I had so much fun checking in on
everyone's side projects, it made me feel guilty for my reluctance and
dinner table griping.  Freddie was working on a new game called /E &
P's Excellent Adventure./ "It's a two player game where you and a
friend play as my brothers, Evan and Phillip, and it's kind of like
Mario, only more violent."  A small, delicately drawn ascii character
lept off a platform and fell onto spikes, exploding into a mist of
yellow liquid.  "I changed the color of the blood.  I think I made it
/too/ violent," Freddie smirked.

Cord and his friend he brought from school were working on a 3D
platformer.  Cord asked me to demo his game, and I was having so much
fun I lost track of time and played for a whole ten minutes.  "Oh man,
I've been here for a while, I need to... you know... make the rounds,"
I said as I collected just a few more coins.

Later, I brainstormed with Moe about a new concept game he was working
on.  "So you're a kid, and your family keeps asking you to do things,"
Moe explained.  "And the goal of the game is to be so bad at helping
that they stop asking you for things."

"I think they call that /strategic incompetence/," I laughed.  "That's
like a Dilbert term for when you're bad at something on purpose so you
don't get more responsibility."  Moe's eyes lit up.  I repeated the
term for him.  "That's what I'm going to call my game.  /Strategic
Incompetence/," he said, and I was honored to contribute.

After our session, I packed the room, thanked the volunteers, then
walked back home.  I had so much fun at Kids Code that I actually kind
of felt ashamed for my earlier reluctance.  Kids have amazing ideas
and they can be so creative, and it's a privilege just to be there.

Have a great Friday, everyone.

*** 2020-01-25 Saturday dog parties, cloudmigos, and kelly and jeremy

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you are having a wonderful Saturday so
far.  This morning, the words of Dr. Seuss come to mind - /A dog/
/party!  Big dogs, little dogs, black dogs, white dogs, yellow dogs,/
/blue dogs, and red dogs are all at a dog party.  What a dog party!/
I'm referring to, of course, Ollie and Ziggy running around the house
and playing with Kelly and Jeremy's dogs, Jo-Jo & Becca.  This
morning, the house feels like a big wonderful dog party.

Meanwhile, as I was straightening things up and brewing coffee, Rodney
and his cousins sat at the table nibbling on stroopwafels and cereal.
Rodney would chime in with a half phrase, Frankie would reply with
some indecipherable baby talk, and then Alice would deliver an
illogical punchline that made all three of them erupt in laughter.
"They remind me of some rascally old people," I said.  Jeremy smiled.
"Yeah, the kind that would get in trouble at a Dunkin' Donuts or
something."

Yesterday was a good day.  In the morning, I worked the support queue,
then worked on some old servers we were planning to decommission.  I
ran the commands to shut them down, then stared at the flickering
graph of active requests and errors.  It swelled, then trended down,
holding just below 100.  "Ah dammit," I growled, hunched over my
keyboard.  If the graph didn't consistently read zero, that meant
other services still expected these things to be up, and we'd have to
track them down and try again later.  With lunch time encroaching, I
begrudgingly turned them back on.  "Better safe than sorry," I
announced to my team.  "Plus I want to enjoy my lunch, I don't want
this causing an issue 45 minutes from now."

We had planned a special reunion lunch that day with the original
cloud team - or /the cloudmigos/ as we called ourselves.  Rob, Alex,
and I walked over to DELUX, ordered some beer, and soon Huttleston
joined us.  Famished from the long morning, I wolfed down my chicken
sandwich in about four bites, then helped myself to fries and fried
pickles.  Over a round of Zombie Dust beers, we reminisced about a
simpler time in Zendesk's infrastructure when it was just the four of
us at that table, for the most part, winging everything.  We had
simple beginnings, but almost four years later our jobs look much
different now, and it's amazing to reflect on all the different teams,
processes, and new technologies that have followed.

After lunch, we slowly made our way back to the office.  I had some
more meetings, but the day started to wind down, concluding with our
team's end of the week retrospective.  Fong presented some Foundation
Engineering t shirts she made.  "I was afraid I was going to get in
trouble for using the logo," she said nervously, passing the shirts
around the room.  "Ah, so they're knock-offs!" I teased.  "You're
totally fine.  We might sue you, but we probably won't - don't worry."
And for a knock-off Zendesk shirt, it's a good shirt.  Having just
gutted my closet of old shirts, I was grateful to add another crisp,
clean, white t shirt to my wardrobe.

I made my way outside and jumped on a bus.  Sighing, slumping down in
my seat, and shutting my eyes, I was grateful to be done with the work
day, but my lack of energy worried me.  Kelly and Jeremy were on their
way to our house, and feeling burnt out from the long work day, I
wasn't sure how I would rally.  As I entered the house, Marissa was
cleaning, Rodney was playing, and I got to making pizza.  The moment I
could smell the minced garlic hit the hot olive oil, I felt the spark
of a good mood.  "I think I just needed to make some pizza sauce," I
announced to Marissa, who was busily cleaning and putting things away
around me.  "Pizza sauce always puts me in a good mood."

Kelly and Jeremy would arrive much later in the night, which gave me
plenty of time to assemble the pizzas with care.  This was the first
double batch of sauce I'd make.  It took much longer to simmer down to
the right consistency, and it took on a much more mysterious and dark
color - which worried me.  I tasted the sauce on a spoon, and to my
relief, it was still sweet and light, like a caprese salad.

I baked the pizzas, then left them on the table to cool.  Kelly and
Jeremy arrived, and a flurry of dogs, children, and joy filled the
house.  After settling in, I coaxed the pizzas out of the cast iron
pans onto a cutting board.  Marissa caught me fist pumping in the
kitchen from the corner of her eye.  "Getting deep dish out of the pan
is like my white whale," I explained.  I've tried many times, and the
results have always been disastrous.

We ate at the table, then after putting all the kids to bed, we
cracked open some beers and stood outside on the deck while the dogs
played in the snow.  "I don't drink any beer until the kids are in
bed," Jeremy explained, rocking on his heels outside on the deck.
"I'd much rather relax when I no longer have a job to do."

"I'm the same way," I replied, nodding along.  It's nothing against
Rodney or the kids, but beer just tastes better after they go to bed,
doesn't it?

We floated from the deck, to the kitchen, and to the living room,
sharing stories and talking about the week.  "It's been an emotionally
charged week," Kelly explained as Jeremy nodded in agreement.  Work
stress take many forms, and it's always illuminating hearing how it's
manifested for someone, whether they're directing a team, drilling
teeth, trying to shut off old servers, or working on a painting that's
larger than your studio.

By the sound of it, things are starting to wind down in the living
room.  Paw Patrol is playing on the TV, and every now and then I'll
here the pattering and rapping of dog feet on the wood floor.  Kelly
and Jeremy are fun guest, and if you've never had them, I'd highly
recommend it.  "You guys aren't even company," I explained last night.
The more they spend time with you, the more energy they give back to
you, it seems.

Well we've finally reached the long anticipated Water Slide Day.  In a
few moments, we'll pack lunches, change into suits, and hit the road
for the great Wisconsin Dells.  I can only imagine Rodney's
excitement, spending the last months thinking, watching videos, and
dreaming about water slides.

Hope you all have a wonderful day.

*** 2020-01-26 Sunday cousin water slide day

Dear Journal,

Hello everyone!  I have to resist the temptation to start off the
entry with "good morning", as that ship has sailed.  Kelly and Jeremy
spent the morning hanging out with us, and I decided to forego the
usual morning entry and instead eat breakfast and polish of three pots
of coffee with them while we watched the kids play.  They hit the road
right before noon, and now that Rodney and Marissa are on the couch
watching the Lion King, things have wound down to the point where I
feel like I can recuse myself to write a journal entry without missing
much.

Yesterday was a much earlier, more focused effort of a morning.  We
woke early, and after setting up the kids with cereal, we immediately
began packing for our water park trip.  I resided in the kitchen,
bagging peanut butter & jelly sandwiches, carrots, apple slices, and
leftover pizza in a cooler while Marissa, Kelly, and Jeremy gathered
swimsuits, towels, and flip flops.  Our collective speed and
efficiency in packing and hitting the road impressed me.  I felt like
a member of some elite special ops force shoving off for a
well-planned assault on a secret enemy base.

After arriving at the Kalahari, we parked and rendezvoused at the
lobby, then found a cafeteria table on which to unpack our food.  We
cautiously set the kids of up with sandwiches and sides, ignoring the
numerous signs that surrounded us that read /NO OUTSIDE FOOD OR
DRINKS/.  There was even a smaller sign on our table.  Marissa dropped
her purse on it, obscuring the warning.  "I didn't see anything," she
said smirking.  We quickly ate our lunch, and thankfully no /Barney
Fife/ type of employees called us out on the infraction.  Out of
gratitude, we left the cafeteria booth even cleaner than we found it.

We changed into our suits, and immediately Rodney led Alice by the
hand to some smaller water slides.  The kids splashed and played while
we mingled around the perimeter, like a pride of lions guarding our
young.  I brought some wine and tequila cleverly disguised as to-go
coffee for us to sip on.  Eventually, the kids wandered further into
the park.  For Alice's first time at a water park, she demonstrated
admirable bravery, although I might have to credit her water slide
obsessed cousin Rodney also for getting her in the right head space.
The kids wandered further into the park, and before long, Alice was
riding the big slides right behind Rodney like a pro.

Marissa meekly agreed to keep an eye on the kids, excusing Me, Kelly,
and Jeremy to take turns riding /The Screaming Hyena/, which towered
menacingly over the park with it's ninety degree drop.  I climbed the
stare flights with Jeremy, which went beyond the ceiling into a little
perch that overlooked the Wisconsin expressway.  Even though it was
just a rural highway, it was oddly beautiful.  "You have a nice view
up here," I said to the lifeguard.  "It's good for counting cars, I
guess," she said without turning her head.

"Can we ride together?" Jeremy asked the lifeguard, gesturing at the
capsule and trapdoor that opened up into the hellish slide.  I nodded
in agreement, adding "Yeah, we can just sort of clutch each other,
right?"  Jeremy and I embraced, demonstrating what we were talking
about.

"No," said the lifeguard rolling her eyes behind her dark sunglasses.

"It's OK," Jeremy interjected.  "I'm a lifeguard too."

"Then you should no the rules," the lifeguard replied smugly, cracking
a smile.  After a thirty mile and hour drop and a fire-hose full of
water flooded my sinuses, I met Jeremy at the bottom of the slide.

Next I rode the slide with Kelly.  When we reached the top, there were
more kids in line than before.  We reminisced about water slides and
amusement parks we used to attend as kids, and I told her about Jeremy
pushing the lifeguard's buttons.  "Jeremy needs to stop telling people
he's a lifeguard," she laughed.  "His certification expired a long
time ago."

Kelly rode the slide and waited for me at the bottom.  "I didn't even
enjoy that," she said wincing, "but the Dutchness in me is happy,
because now I feel I got my money's worth."

We walked back to check in on Marissa and the kids.  Rodney and Alice
repeatedly ran up the same set of stairs and descended on the same
slide, keeping perfectly in sync as if stuck in a loop.  Frankie was
waddling around in the shallow water.  "You should have seen Frankie,"
Marissa reported.  "She looked at me, pointed at something, then just
fell backwards like her head was too heavy to hold up."

With time for one more ride, Jeremy suggested the body board machine
in the corner, which sat beside the bar in plain view of a set of
tables and chairs arranged around it like a theater.  "It's kind of
nerve racking," he said, "because everyone is staring at you expecting
you to put on a show."  We queued up in line on a long gentle slope
that ran up the side of the machine.  One by one, guest jumped on the
rubber mat with a yellow body board, and if they could hold their
balance just right, they would ride the crest of the spraying water
like a never-ending wave.  In front of the attraction, a lifeguard sat
with his own board, gesturing at the riders.  "This guy is trying to
get people to do stupid stuff so they wipe out," Jeremy said.  Sure
enough, the lifeguard challenged a little girl to climb forward and
ride on the board sitting up.  She tried, and the board slipped out
from under her, sending her rocketing up the mat and rolling into the
back wall.

Jeremy was up first.  He grabbed the board and leapt into the water
doing a 360 spin.  He centered himself, did a somersault, then
recovered his balance.  If people at the bar weren't watching before,
they were certainly watching after.  He put on a great show.

I was up next.  I leapt forward, flopping into the water.  Not to
underscore Jeremy's athleticism, but the ride wasn't as difficult as I
thought it would be.  Soon, I too gathered my composure, and even did
some lesser, intermediate tricks.  Being on the taller side, I felt I
had more control of the board on the water.  If I was sliding
backwards too quickly, I could just extend my legs and angle them,
keeping me at the sweet spot of the wave.  If this ride meant
anything, I think I could have made a pretty good surfer.

We packed up the kids, who at that point in the afternoon were
delirious with the desire to sleep.  I nodded off myself, even in the
fifteen minutes of driving between the highway exit and hour house,
shooting my head up as we pulled into the driveway.

The rest of the night, in all our best interest, was low key.  Marissa
and I picked up groceries, and I made soup.  We ate at the table, put
the kids to bed, then enjoyed a movie on the couch before turning in
for bed at weeknight hours.

We had a wonderful weekend with Kelly and Jeremy, and it left plenty
of fun memories to reflect on as we wind down for a productive Sunday
evening and a relaxing remainder to the weekend.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2020-01-27 Monday exercise, the grammys, pizza, and planning

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone - and happy Monday.  I hope when you wake and
read these, you're feeling good and ready to attack this final week in
January.

I'm certainly feeling well rested.  Yesterday, after we bid farewell
to Kelly, Jeremy, Alice, Frankie, and their wonderful puppies Jo-Jo &
Becca, the Recker family kept things about as low-key as possible.
Rodney cruised through two back-to-back Disney movies on the couch
before heading upstairs to take a nap.  Marissa and I watched some
YouTube videos.  I queued up a Food Wishes recipe video for Cincinnati
style chili, which in the end pretty much just amounted to boiled
ground beef dumped over spaghetti.  "Please don't make that," were
Marissa's parting words before slipping into an afternoon nap of her
own.  I cracked open a beer, and went upstairs to give Marissa more
room on the couch, but soon the beer sent me into a nap as well.  As
winter darkness fell, our house slept off a full, action-packed
weekend of family, cooking, and water parks.

I sat up in bed at 6:45, and I sleepily crept down the stairs with a
mission of ordering something for dinner.  Marissa had the dogs,
blankets, and pillows arranged around her like a scene from a
Renaissance painting.  I gently shook her, and she raised her head
just long enough to agree on a pizza place.

We settled on Sal's pizza.  I ordered it at the computer, Marissa
shouting /YES/ and /NAH/ to a list of custom toppings from the living
room as I read them aloud from my chair.  In the style of an annoying
brother, I took time to read every single ingredient alphabetically,
even the ones I knew she would never order.  "OLIVES?  JALAPENOS?
SMOKED VEGAN CHICKEN?  VEGAN SMOKED GOUDA?  SMOKED OLIVES?"

I ordered a large fig and bacon pizza for me and Rodney to share.
After our food arrived, we woke Rodney and stowed away the dogs so he
could join enjoy the pizza on the couch.  I found a free online stream
of the Grammy's and wired it up to the living room TV.  Still in his
pajamas from that morning, Rodney was oddly content sitting there
watching the Grammy's with us.

While plating the pizza, I noticed they gave us the wrong order.
Rather than fig and bacon, they brought us some kind of custom pizza
with tomatoes, roasted garlic, and wads of smoked cheese.  Marissa
called the EatStreet driver.  "OK, we figured we'd just call you first
in case it was sitting in your car or something," she said over the
phone.  "So we would just have to order a new pizza," I said.  Marissa
nodded.  "So it will just be another hour," I said, rolling my eyes.
"Whatever, we'll eat this, it actually looks pretty good."  In
hindsight, perhaps getting the wrong pizza was the universe judging me
for being so annoying while ordering Marissa's custom pizza.

For the rest of Rodney's evening, we sat on the couch, munching on
pizza and heckling the Grammy performances in the style of /Mystery/
/Science Theater 3K/.  At one point, while Camila Cabello was
performing, Rodney pointed at the TV and remarked, "Oh, that's momma."
Still chewing a bite of pizza, Marissa leaned in to clarify.  "Wait,
who is that?"

"That's momma," Rodney said, smiling to himself.  Marissa got misty
eyed.  "That makes me so happy dude," she said.  We put Rodney to bed
together, changing him out of his morning pair of PJ's and into a
clean evening pair.  "You gotta love the days where it's just nothing
but pajamas, right dude?" I said while changing him.  We tucked him
in, and after bedtime prayers, we congratulated Marissa one last time
on a successful Grammy performance.

After putting Rodney to bed, I floated into the bedroom to exercise.
Why would I do that?  Did I hit my head at the waterpark and develop
sudden amnesia?  Do I have multiple personalities?  No, I simply
decided I'd like to mix in a modest amount of muscle building into my
day-to-day routine.  For whatever reason, for me this is the year of
creating routines to follow, and I'm not about to become a full blown
gym rat or anything.  I'm sticking to push-ups and sit-ups.  I decided
to workout daily Sunday through Thursday, doing two sets of each -
first my maximum amount, and after a minute of rest, one last set of
half my maximum.  This week, I'm at ten push-ups and twenty sit-ups.


The new regimen was painful - especially after eating a pizza topped
with smoked cheese - but overall it was a great way to get the heart
pumping before evening chores.  Listening to some pump-up music, I
finished cleaning the kitchen, took the garbage out, wiped down our
dining room table, and cleaned out the car.

At eleven, Marissa and I met upstairs for our Sunday night meeting.
"I'm really excited about our Sunday night meeting," Marissa told me
earlier this weekend.  I felt the same.  It's a good routine.

We tallied up the points we completed, discarded the finished cards,
then went through each stack of cards we still had in the drawer -
editing, re-ordering, and negotiating.  Having made so much progress
on the basement this past week, we're finally ready to start moving
things downstairs.  This week, I also hope to rebuild my router with
fewer parts, which will make for a small but noticeable improvement to
the look of the IT shelf.  Marissa took a ticket to call a plumber for
the basement drain.  "I'm not looking forward to that," she shared.
"It worries me, and it's starting to smell."

In two minutes, my on-call week of on-call will be over.  In
celebration, I might go for a long walk and take a quiet /unplugged/
lunch somewhere in the building where I won't be bothered.  Hope you
have a fulfilling day today, staying warm, fed, and focused.  Thanks
for reading.

*** 2020-01-28 Tuesday sick day, clippy, and tequila in tea

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  I hope you woke up feeling better than I do.
Right now my energy level is pretty low.  Just as I was coming home
from work yesterday, I started to come down with a sore throat, and
this morning I woke up feeling pretty crummy.  After some anguishing,
I decided to take a sick day home from work.  The unfortunate thing is
that I still have an osteo appointment at 8:40, meaning I still need
to get ready and leave the house this morning at the same time I
normally do.  Do you still to go a scheduled doctor's appointment if
you're feeling sick?  Something about sitting in a small room exposing
a healthy young doctor to a crummy sore throat doesn't feel right, but
I'd imagine he's around that kind of thing all day anyway.

The timing actually isn't bad.  Today was /spine manipulation/ day,
and at least now I have the whole day to recover in case he really
does a number on my back.  I trust the process, and I really think
they know what they're doing, but even the "mini session" he did last
appointment left me feeling really sore, so part of me is anticipating
a painful, cathartic response.

I'm looking forward to taking a day to sleep and heal.  Rolling right
from a hectic week of ticket duty to kids code to a busy water slide
weekend finally caught up with me.  I'll spend the rest of the
afternoon just getting as much sleep as I can, then hopefully I'll
feel good enough to throw together some soup for dinner or something.
Maybe tonight we'll make pasta fazoule.  I could go for a spicy,
warming one-pot meal.

Minor declination of health aside, yesterday was a pretty good day.
It was a meeting heavy day - one of those days where we had something
tough to design as a team, and also struggled to find time to discuss
it.  We spent the day wheeling the same little whiteboard around to
different rooms, meeting in thirty minute sessions between everyone
else's schedule.

For lunch, I walked over to my favorite food cart, but seeing it
hadn't yet opened, I decided to walk a little further to Collectivo
and check out their lunch menu.  I bought an avocado BLT on sourdough,
and it came with these really tasty potato chips.  I ate my lunch
quietly in the break room while I moved some more recipes over to the
online cookbook.  Kelly was kind enough to share pictures she took of
my french toast, which looked infinitely more appealing than what I
had cropped out of a blurry picture I took on this past Christmas
morning.

It was also pointed out to me that I spelled "cayenne" wrong all
throughout the leek & potato soup recipe I added.  I spelled each like
"cyan" - the color.  That's an especially nasty typo because it has
worked its way into my muscle memory.  My fingers think "cyan" is a
spice, and my brain must think it looks close enough.  That gave me an
idea for a plugin.  Since "cyan" is one of many reoccurring typos I
struggle with, it might not be a bad idea to keep them in a watch list
and make my text editor prompt me /Are you sure you wanted to say
cyan, the color/ when I try saving the document I'm writing.  If only
Clippy, the cartoon paperclip mascot of Microsoft Word, were still
around in my daily life.  This type of thing is probably his bread and
butter.

Confession: I talk about /Clippy/ fondly as if he were a big part of
my paper writing career in high school, but between you and me I
switched our family computer to the dog cartoon instead, which had a
much less memorable animation set.  Clippy could dance and form
himself into shapes like a cowboy hat or an airplane, and all the dog
did was prance and lick the screen.

After lunch, I had a code screen in the late afternoon, and just as I
finished up, I started to feel a distant scratch in my throat.  I
suppose the timing worked out, because at that point I was practically
all finished talking for the day, and I could spend the rest of the
day filling out a code screen evaluation and working on my work goals
for the first half of the year.

After work, I took the bus home.  Rodney greeted me enthusiastically
at his door upstairs, and I did my best to match his energy.  "He
missed you today," said Marissa.  "He's really excited about going to
Hy-Vee."

We jumped in the car to pick up dinner.  Marissa's stomach has been
upset lately, so I gave her the full control of the dinner menu.
"Just close your eyes and picture what you want on your plate," I
asked earlier over slack.  She came up with chicken, potatoes, and a
kale salad.

Before Rodney and I walked into Hy-Vee, our friend from the meat
counter bumped into us outside on his way to tend to the smoker.  He
offered to let us look inside and waft some free smells.  He opened
the metal door, revealing about 100 chicken wings bathing in the wet
smoke.  "I never get tired of that smell," I said.

"Well I do," replied the butcher.  "I can't even put my hat on at
home, the smell gets really obnoxious."

"I suppose you could overdue anything," I said.  I could believe that.
I haven't smoked much on my grill this season.  I like the smell, but
honestly I was just making small talk.

Rodney and I picked up groceries and headed home.  I cooked some
chicken breasts and potatoes and tossed a kale salad with strawberries
and cucumbers.  We put Rodney to bed, then feeling better from a good
dinner, got some chores done before crashing on the couch.  I prepared
a cup of decaf green tea spiked with some tequila.  "Can you put
tequila in tea?" I asked Marissa.  She shrugged her shoulders, and I
dropped a half shot in my mug and took a sip.  "Yes you can," I said
completing my own thought.  It felt good to rest, and I'm looking
forward to resting again in the same way.

That's what I got today.  I'm going to shower, go to the doctor, then
go back to sleep.  I hope you have a great day today.  Stay healthy,
drink water, and get plenty of sleep.  Thanks for reading, and happy
Tuesday.

*** 2020-01-29 Wednesday ramen, realignment, and king of the hill

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  I hope you are feeling healthy and strong,
and having a productive week.  This morning, I'm far from 100%, but
I'm going to try to jump on line and do some work.  If I had to go
into the office today, I wouldn't dream of it, but since Wednesday is
usually my work from home day, I think I can manage.  I have a code
screen right before lunch, but for the rest of the day I'm pretty much
free to find something to work on.

This is probably the sickest I've ever been since I began daily
journaling, and I'm not going to lie, I thought I would have to really
dig deep this morning finding something to talk about.  But I'm
pleasantly surprised that writing doesn't really take a lot of energy
for me these days.  After all, I've rambled about how writing is kind
of like a muscle, and following through with that analogy, muscles get
stronger, and soon they don't take as much energy to do the same
amount of work.  Or it could just be the Day-quill kicking in.  I've
been popping those things like candy, and I think the dose I took with
my first cup of coffee is giving me some wings.

So yesterday morning, I still had to leave the house at practically
the same time I do on every Tuesday.  I was dreading social
interaction of any kind, even small talk with a doctor.  But focused
on climbing back into bed after the appointment, I resolved to just
get through it.

My doctor is a tall, young guy, and I had forgotten how chatty he was.
Lucky for me, he was the kind of chatty that can carry a conversation
solo.  As he dispensed instructions on where to sit, stand, lie, and
bend over, he rambled about his profession and the benefits of the
spine manipulation he performs.

"This feels tender right here," he said, gently patting a spot in my
upper back.  "I've felt a twinge there for a while," I said.  He
guided my arms up to my chest, then gently and systematically torqued
my back up and to the left.  The twinge spot on my back lit up,
flooded with the warmth of a good stretch.  "That one was a real
puzzle," I said through a grimace.  I didn't even know it was possible
to stretch that part of your back.

As I laid back on the table, the doctor grabbed the balls of my feet
and compared them.  "Did you know one leg is a little longer than the
other?" he asked.  "That would be news to me," I said, cracking a wry,
unseen smirk from my end of the examination table.  "I think it's
probably just your hips, let me see if I can realign them."  The
doctor pressed down on my hips, like he was giving them CPR.  The
tingling sensation made me squirm.  Feeling my hips crunch under his
arms, I suddenly felt so fragile and carnal, like a piece of meat
lying on a butcher's table.  He concluded the session by stretching my
legs in a circle.

"This must be kind of a workout for you, huh?  I'm a big dude..." I
said as he hoisted my leg in the air.  The doctor interrupted me with
an observation.  "Nah," he said heaving my other leg in the air.
"Young healthy guys like you are actually a lot of fun to work on.
Your body responds to what we do immediately."

I thanked the doctor and he sent me on my way.  It's hard to judge if
the therapy did anything for my spasms, since they have already
subsided from taking daily magnesium supplements, but either way, I
was eagerly looking forward to heading home for a nap.  Coming home, I
trudged upstairs and crumpled back into bed, sleeping through the rest
of the morning.

I woke up some time around noon.  Rodney was playing in our bed,
trying to read me books.  After shrugging him off of me, I relocated
downstairs to the couch to watch TV.  I ran out of YouTube videos to
watch, then spent some time looking for new cooking channels to
follow.  I came up empty, I think my usual set of Chef John, Stefan,
Maangchi, Bruno, Munchies, and sometimes Babish is too complete.
Giving up, I instead put /King of the Hill/ on shuffle.  It would
remain on the rest of the day.  I can't imagine I'm the only one who
has a TV show reserved for sick days.  /King of the Hill/ is slow.
There's not many surprises, but it's still satisfying, like a big bowl
of chicken soup for your brain.

Later in the afternoon, I journeyed to the kitchen to make a bowl of
spicy ramen for lunch.  Marissa was in the kitchen putting groceries
away.  I dabbed some hot sauce into the hot broth while the noodles
simmered.  Marissa started coughing from the aroma.  "What did you put
in that?" asked Marissa through teary eyes.  "Just some hot sauce," I
laughed.  "I wanted to flush my nose out - you know I can't even smell
that."

I laid on the couch through the rest of the afternoon, finally getting
up to make dinner at six.  Despite feeling fatigued and achy, the
routine of preparing dinner carried me like a slow train.  We ate
pasta fazoul at the dinner table.

I limped through my dutch lesson, then returned to the couch for the
rest of the night.  I opened a beer thinking it might help settle my
stomach, but I soon regretted it and switched back to tea.  Laying on
the couch under a blanket, I could hear Marissa running the sink and
cleaning dishes.  Cleaning the dishes, taking care of Rodney, and
picking up groceries, Marissa was the hero of my sick day.

Today, I'm feeling just barely well enough to work.  I'm hoping that I
can take a story and quietly chip away at it from the couch.  I'll
have to dig deep to find the energy to do a code screen, but it
shouldn't be so bad.  Right now, I'm looking forward to shutting my
laptop at 4, and maybe stealing a nap.

Right now, I'm thinking of everyone else reading this.  You probably
didn't get to stay home yesterday, and it's just a regular work week
for you.  I don't like when we can't bond and commiserate together
over each day of the work week, but we're both here now.  It's
Wednesday - the week is practically half way over and before you know
it, it will be the weekend and we can all nap to our heart's content.

Hope you have a great day today.  Drink plenty of water and take lots
of breaks to stretch your back and arms.

*** 2020-01-30 Thursday dumplings, rodney's favorites, and the blanket game

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling healthy and strong today.
As for me, I'm feeling a little bit better.  At this point, the sore
throat left, and I'm just dealing with an obnoxious cough, a cold, and
some fatigue.  While not yet at 100%, I think I'm well enough to head
into work today.  I think as long as I keep the cough drops close by,
I'll manage just fine.

Yesterday was a pretty alright day.  I was able to keep a low profile
working from home, chipping away at a ticket and eventually summoning
the energy to conduct a code screen.  It went well, but it took a lot
out of me, and things kind of slowed down in the afternoon, but I hung
in there until quitting time.

Marissa was kind enough to pick up groceries again.  Having had the
same cough/cold virus, I'm looking forward to the stage she is at that
evidently gives you a boost of productive energy.  "Today is the first
day I don't feel sick at all," she said.  For me, that should only be
a few days from now.

For dinner, I decided to make dumplings.  This surprised Marissa,
since the last time I made dumplings it was kind of a big production
that involved two people.  But Chef John has a /lazy dumpling/ recipe
where he makes a dozen at a time by essentially just making one long
/saucijzenbroodje/ from pork and dough, then "karate chopping" it into
smaller pieces.  The dough was a little tricky, but all in all it
wasn't so bad.  You can really tell Chef John is a pro because of the
way he makes do.  He uses one hand to knead and mop up the extra flour
in the bowl, so that by the time he's done he can just drop the dough
ball in the same bowl and let it rest.  My bowl, in comparison, was
caked with wet flour, and I had to scrub it out in the sink before I
could reuse it.  I also made way too much dough.

All throughout mixing and kneading the dough in the kitchen, I coughed
uncontrollably.  I imagine my barking and wheezing could be heard all
throughout the house, and even though Marissa and Rodney have probably
already been exposed to this cruddy virus, I could only imagine how
uncomfortable it must have been hearing someone cough all over your
dinner.  It kind of had the same energy as that scene from the Office
where Dwight insists the rest of the office cough and sneeze on his
things so he can develop a better immunity.

With my cantaloupe sized dough ball resting in plastic, the ground
pork marinating in ginger, garlic, and soy sauce, and the white rice
drying over the sink in a colander, I had a whole hour to kill before
assembly.  I could have probably squeezed in a nap, but I instead
chose to enjoy a cup of tea on the couch and watch some TV.  It felt
good to just sit and not think about anything.

An hour later, I got up to finish making dinner.  I flattened the
dough, rolled a dense center of pork, and pinched the thin surface
shut, sealing it with some water.  I heated up my biggest pan with
sesame oil and butter, then seared the dumplings for a few minutes.  I
guess at that point, they were potstickers, and true to their name,
they stuck right to the bottom of my pan.

And the great thing about potstickers is that once you put them down
in the pan, you don't have to touch them again.  Instead of prying
them free, I dumped in glass of chicken broth seasoned with soy sauce
and mirin.  Steam billowed from the pan up to my ceiling, sputtering
and hissing before dying down to a simmer.  I covered the dumplings
and cranked the heat.  They gently bobbed in the broth as the lid
fogged up, but the smell still leaked out.

I transferred the dumplings to the only Chinese looking bowl we own in
the house, then dredged them in broth.  We ate it with a side of white
rice, and giving the rice extra time to drain and dry off made for a
noticeable improvement.  I ate my dumplings with a dab of Korean chili
paste.

Halfway through eating, Rodney interrupted us, proudly announcing
"Hey, I like this!"  He had already picked his bowl clean of any
ground pork, and all that remained was a little bed of white rice and
some shreds of dumpling dough.  I smiled at Marissa.  "That makes me
happy," I said to her.  "I like keeping track of what meals he likes."

"I think he likes anything with pork," she laughed.  "He's pork boy."

It's true.  Rodney's favorites are a high profile, exclusive list, and
thus far they only include peanut butter and jelly cut into triangles,
pork chops, and now pork dumplings.  Occasionally, he'll ask for a
soft boiled egg, but I think he's more interesting in peeling them
over the sink than he is in actually eating them.

Marissa put Rodney to bed and let me get an early jump on chores.
"Don't push yourself too hard," she warned.  Truth be told, I don't
mind putting things away in the kitchen.  On most nights, cleaning up
the kitchen is as relaxing to me as being on the computer.  It's a
form of meditation.  I moved slowly between tasks, taking plenty of
breaks to check in on Marissa and Rodney or push some fluids.

After Rodney was in bed, while I was waiting for oven to heat up so I
could clean the stove, I decided to be a spectator of the dogs'
/blanket game/, which is a clever game-ification of their dinner
designed to teach them to respect each other's training time.  Both
dogs sit on a folded blanket, and Marissa will do tricks with one of
the dogs, using a piece of kibble as motivation.  If the other dog
stays put on the blanket, they are rewarded with a piece of kibble as
well.  I tried playing a round.  It was difficult finding the
coordination to dispense commands to two dogs at once, but it was fun.
I felt like a lion tamer or something.  I used to tease Marissa for
making the dogs to tricks for their dinner, but I could see now that
they look forward to the blanket game.  "They actually love it," she
said.  "It puts me in a good mood too."

"It's kind of like their own little game show with food," I remarked.

I'm feeling rested today.  I spent the rest of the evening pushing
fluids and vitamins like a maniac, and if I had to guess, I'd say I'm
at a solid B right now.  I'm grateful it's Thursday, and by the time I
start feeling completely better, it will be the weekend.  That's
something to look forward too.

Thanks for reading.  Hope you have a great day today.

*** 2020-01-31 Friday ginseng, ramen, and bonsai trees

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday, and likewise, happy last day of
January.  This morning, I hope you are all feeling as good as I am.
My soar throat is a distant memory, and at this point I'm just dealing
with a /booger/ situation.

I felt well enough to go to work yesterday, but I was still teased for
showing up.  Catching me making sniffling sounds at morning stand-up,
the team gave me some light harassment about coming into work and
threatening their health.  "No seriously, I feel great - I wouldn't be
here if I did," I contested.  "Are you sure?" replied my boss.
"Because you even look kind of sick."

"Well now I have no choice but to be offended, since this is what I
look like when I feel good," I shot back.  I still did my best to keep
out of peoples' way, opening doors with my feet and washing my hands
every time I passed the sink.  That coronavirus must have people on
high alert for any kind of disease.  In fact, my work just announced
that anyone who has been to China recently needs to work from home for
the same amount of time.  Luckily, I didn't have coronavirus.

After stand-up, my coworker Fong kindly offered me some ginseng.  Fong
is from China, and I've come to learn that the Chinese take tea very
seriously.  I've written before about team "tea time", in which Fong
shows up her elaborate ritual for brewing matcha.  She handed me a
small silver tin with a dozen little brown twigs rolling around
inside.  "Pick three good ones, put them in some hot water, and add a
little bit of honey," she instructed.  The tea was so powerful, I
could have sworn the inside of my mouth went numb, and all at once I
felt a tremendous burst of productive energy.  I spent the rest of the
morning writing code at my desk, enjoying the clean caffeine buzz of
pure ginseng before I got up to make some lunch.

I heated up a bowl of Korean instant ramen in the kitchen and returned
to my desk.  I hadn't had this ramen in a while.  Korean ramen
activates memories of working at Healthgrades.  Before I cooked so
much, I used to fill my cubicle cabinet with packets of instant Korean
ramen, each with their own interesting colors, graphics, and seasoning
packets.  I still enjoy it every once in a while.  Unlike the cheap
maruchan stuff you'd buy at Target, Korean instant ramen is closer to
a real meal.  I took the bowl of spicy noodles to my desk, enjoying
some YouTube videos, then winding down with a bottle of iced tea.

I had some meetings, then concluded the day with a short coding war
room, where Fong, Alex, and I performed a data migration that was on
the complicated side and needed more than just one set of eyes.  I
ducked out just in time to jump on the bus homeward.

Back at home, I triumphantly rolled my backpack on the ground and
collapsed onto the couch, where Marissa was sleeping with Ziggy under
the blanket.  I proceeded to surf some YouTube videos, soaking up the
extra time between coming home and going out to eat.  Marissa awoke to
me watching an interview with Jay Cutler.  "This interview was
dissapointing," I griped.  "I don't know why everyone was going nuts
about it on reddit, it's just Jay Cutler bragging about how he would
probably be really good at olympic handball."

Rodney awoke, and after I got him out of bed, he too joined us on the
couch.  We packed the dogs away and jumped in the car, bound for
Portillo's.  "I haven't eaten much this week," I said to Marissa while
we were waiting in line to order.  "I think I'm going to get the
ribs."  Marissa smiled in approval.

After finishing up at Portillo's, we jumped back in the car and drove
to Target.  Marissa needed to return something, and I suggested we
pick up a gallon of milk.  As usual on Thursdays, we also decided to
tool around the toy aisle and let Rodney check out the monster trucks
and nerf guns.  His eye was drawn to the shoulder mounted sniper rifle
nerf gun, which in the box, was about as long as he is tall.  "Rodney,
if you can pick that up and point it at me, I'll buy it for you on the
spot," teased Marissa.  I very much wanted to holder her to that.
I've always been a fan of Rodney owning humongous toys that are
inappropriate for his age.  You might recall that I bought him a Xena
Warrior Princess sword that made sound effects when he was only two.
And just as a two year old with a sword amused me, so did Rodney
owning a high powered nerf sniper rifle.  But despite our best
efforts, I couldn't get him to hold up the heavy rifle, and we had to
leave it at the store.

We headed home, and after putting Rodney to bed, I practiced Dutch,
knocked out my push-ups and sit-ups, then trotted upstairs to rewire
my IT shelf.  After discovering that the software I was using on my
router could run off of a tiny USB stick, I realized I didn't need the
bulky metal case around the motherboard and could throw away the cheap
hard drive.  I unboxed a new much simpler open case, which was just a
piece of Plexiglas and screws that held the motherboard an inch above
the shelf.  "Wow," remarked Marissa as I was assembling it at my
desk.  "That looks so much better."

I spent the rest of the evening installing the software and wrapping
cables, making an effort to demonstrate more patience.  Instead of
wrapping every cable in tight coils around my fist, I tried to
compromise with where the cable wanted to lie naturally, and I think
it made the whole set up look more relaxed and free.  It sort of
reminded me of the scene from Karate Kid where Mr. Miyagi is showing
Daniel how to prune a bonsai tree.  Wrapping cables is much the same.

I booted the wall back up.  Fans whirred.  Lights flickered.  "Plex is
working," Marissa hollered from downstairs.  I raised my hands above
my head in satisfaction.  "Practically a perfect game," I boasted.  I
just love it when you can turn things off and on, and they go back to
doing what they were meant to do.

I hope you all have a wonderful Friday.  I'm looking forward to
hanging out with Rodney this weekend while Marissa is at an agility
trial, and of course watching the Superbowl this Sunday.  Godspeed,
Jimmy Garoppolo.  I know you'll make the northwest suburbs proud.

** 2020-02 February

*** 2020-02-01 Saturday work, super heros, chicken, and taylor swift

Dear Journal,

Good morning!  Welcome February!  Happy Saturday!  I hope everyone is
feeling good today.  Even though we both know February will probably
be just as cold and dark as January was, I think we can celebrate that
we're just a little closer to spring.

This morning, I woke up a little later to Rodney peeking his head out
of his door yelling /Helloooooo/ into the hallway.  He's still very
good about not leaving his room without our blessing, but this wake up
call is the very latest in obedience workarounds.  I reluctantly
crawled out of bed, changed him into some clean underwear, then went
downstairs to take care of the dogs.

I set Rodney up on the couch with some Eggo waffles and sliced fruit,
and soon enough Marissa joined us.  Later this morning, she'll leave
with Ziggy for an agility trial in Milwaukee, and we three boys will
have to find something cool to do.

Yesterday was a pretty swell Friday.  Our first half of the year goals
were due yesterday, and being the last person remaining on our team
who had not yet submitted them, I was relentlessly teased about it all
morning.  "OK, I'll remind you again in 10 minutes," joked my boss.  I
submitted my goals later that morning, garnering some sarcastic
applause.

I coded through the morning, then went for a walk around the square.
Lately, I've enjoyed eating at Collectivo.  I've always thought of
them as a coffee place, but one day it struck me that half of their
menu is food - sandwiches, wraps, salads, and even breakfast bowls,
making for a pretty formidable lunch option when I'm in a pinch.  I
treated myself to a potato, egg, and bacon breakfast burrito, finding
a quiet place to sit in the office away from my desk and read up on
the Bears off-season from my phone.

I had some meetings in the afternoon, concluding the work day with our
team's end of the week demo & retro.  I shared my screen, taking my
team through a tour of what I had worked on that week.  "It's not
finished yet, so the only running example I can show you is what the
code does if there were /no/ changes."  I clicked a tab, flashing the
message =No configuration changes, nothing to do!= on the screen.

Back at home, I got Rodney out of his room so we could go shopping.
He was deep in sleep, and after waking he was in a pretty quiet mood.
Usually chatting my ear off, this time on the drive over the only
thing he mentioned was something about Paw Patrol Mac 'n Cheese, which
I later learned he had for lunch, liking it so much that he finished
over half the box by himself.  A new inductee into Rodney's
favorites - and not a very surprising one either.

Rodney sat in the foot tray of our small grocery cart with his hood
up, thinking and looking around while I shopped.  I picked up chicken
legs, potatoes, and a bag of baby spinach.  I let Rodney pick out a
chocolate egg as we were checking out.

Back at home, Rodney sat at the table expectantly, waiting for me to
open his chocolate egg.  I peeled the wrapping, and out tumbled a tiny
Hulk figurine.  "Green goblin!" exclaimed Rodney.  I've finally
figured out Rodney's system for super hero identification.  Every
super hero is simply /ironman/ - unless you're dealing with the Hulk.
He's too big and too green to be mistaken for ironman, so we call him
/green goblin/.  At least that one makes a little more sense.

As Marissa napped on the couch, I tossed the chicken legs and potatoes
in lemon juice, garlic, oil, and spices, then arranged it in our
roasting dish.  Hearing me in the kitchen, Rodney joined me and asked
to help.  Together, we flipped and dredged the chicken legs in the
oven, then got to work cutting up parsley and making a greek yogurt
dressing.  He also nibbled on strawberries while I tossed the salad.
"Rodney loves strawberries," he stated between licking his fingers.
"Yeah I know dude," I replied, moving the rest of them out of his
reach so he wouldn't pick our salad clean before dinner.  Cooking
seemed to improve his mood - Rodney was more talkative, and while we
waited for the chicken to bake, we played some catch with his ball in
the kitchen.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, and I knocked out some push-ups
and sit-ups.  Even though it was a Friday night, I wanted to get at
least one make up day in to account for being sick this week.  And I
honestly like how the exercise makes me feel.  The push-ups are
becoming easier, but I still struggle with the sit-ups.  "It's weird,"
I explained to Marissa the other night while she patiently sat on my
feet for counter weight.  "I used to be much better at sit-ups.  I
used to look forward to them because they were a break from the
push-ups, which I hated."

I finished Dutch, knocked out chores, and helped Marissa carefully
move her resin tent in the basement, relocated earlier that day for a
plumber who was checking our drain earlier that day.

After calling it a night, I worked on some code in the dining room
while Marissa finished up.  I had a pretty fun day of coding
yesterday.  I set up a secret store on my kubernetes cluster, and that
should make it much simpler to add automated jobs and little web
endpoints for our home.  Additionally, we're starting some projects at
work around the same type of technology, and I always enjoy work more
when I can familiarize myself with the same stuff at home - with lower
stakes, of course.

We concluded the night on the couch.  For her movie pick, Marissa
picked the new Taylor Swift documentary on Netflix.  "I thought we'd
like it, since we've both had a love-hate thing with Taylor Swift in
the past," said Marissa.  And we did like it.  The documentary was
interesting.  It was packed with lots of intimate footage that shed
light on why she was unhappy as a country singer, and what it felt
like when people turned on her.  "It's sad, I get that," I narrated
over the movie.  "But at some point, when celebrities complain about
the Internet judging them, it kind of just sounds like their
complaining about her job.  Blocking it out is a skill that she needs
to develop more."  Easy for me to say, I suppose.  I don't think
anyone has every said anything mean about me on the public Internet.
I sympathize, but I think my point stands.

Last night was a late one.  Perhaps I was a little too excited about
finally feeling good after a week of being sick.  I'm already eye
balling the clock for an afternoon nap before Marissa gets home.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today.

*** 2020-02-02 Sunday crafty fair, grocery shopping, and a good cleaning tip

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  We're feeling a bit rushed this morning.
Both Marissa and I slept in a mere half hour past our alarm, but it's
funny how so few minutes can change how a whole morning feels, isn't
it?  It's going to be tight, and there's little room for error, but I
think we're going to make it.  I've got a cup of coffee, Rodney is
eating a bowl of cereal by the TV with some cut up strawberries
(Rodney's Favorites, Item #5), and I'm next in line for a shower.

Yesterday was a much slower, more relaxing morning.  We slept in, and
I let Rodney eat some cut up Eggo waffles on the couch while watching
water slide videos.  After breakfast, I cleaned him up, and Marissa
set him up with toys and a movie before leaving for agility.  I'd be
able to code the rest of the morning in the dining room.

I'm definitely in a coding phase these days.  Over the past few days,
I've even left some code on the screen in the dining room, chipping
away at it sometimes whenever I walk by.  It's funny how I go through
phases like that.

Finally as it started to approach the middle of the day, Rodney got
bored with his movie and started to bother me.  He brought toys from
the living room one by one and shoved them onto the desk.  /I brought
you prizes/, he'd say, then run back and get more.  I've often
wondered at how his toys end up in piles on the computer desk, but
thanks to yesterday, that's no longer a mystery.

"You can always tell the days where I pay bills and I'm really
productive on the family computer," Marissa told me.  "Because there's
usually a big stack of Rodney's toys from when he brings me prizes and
tries to get me to play with him."  Mystery solved.

Rodney and I made some lunch.  He helped me assemble a peanut butter
and jelly for his plate, and I heated up leftover chicken and potatoes
for mine.  Rodney watched with concern as I dabbed hot sauce all over
my bowl.  "Careful Dada," he said, gesturing at me.  "Spicy."

"Thanks for the heads up dude," I said nodding.

"Drink your biertje," Rodney replied, pointing at my beer.  I
obediently took a swig from the bottle.  "All better," commented
Rodney.

We cleaned up from lunch, showered, and got ready for the day,
dressing in some warm clothes in preparation for our long walk.  Even
though it was barely above freezing temperature, the sun, warmer air,
and melting ice made it feel like the first spring day all year.  We
jumped in Rodney's big blue wagon and headed down our street.  Rodney
sat in the wagon with his fists stuffed in his coat pocket.

As we passed the community center in our neighborhood, I noticed a
sign that said /Crafty Fair, 10-4/.  "Let's check it out dude," I said
to Rodney.  "If anything, we can just walk around and warm up for a
few minutes."  We parked our wagon out front, hung our coats up, and
wandered between the crowded craft booths.  Rodney liked looking at
the tiny succulent plants, paintings, and pottery.  In the upper
level, there was a vendor selling /vintage clothes/.

"What are vintage clothes?" Marissa asked later.  I started a waffled
explanation.  "You know... like if you want a bright red windbreaker
with the Nintendo logo, or an 80's batman graphic T shirt."  Marissa
laughed, "Oh, so it's basically good will."

Rodney and I braved some more light sales pressure to buy handmade
soaps and homemade popcorn, but we resisted, and headed outside to
stretch our legs on the playground.  The park whipped him into a
frenzy of childish excitement, leaping through the wet snow from one
play fixture to the next, yelling at the top of his lungs.  "DADA
WATCH /THIS/" he yelled, spinning in fast circles on a seat fixed to a
metal pole.  "DADA WATCH /THIS/," now running dizzily to the slide.

Soon, the sun went down behind some clouds, and it started to get
cold.  We jumped back in our wagon and finally got back on track to
walk to the grocery store.  Well past his usual naptime, Rodney
started to crash, quietly slumping back in his wagon.

The grocery store was busy.  As we stood waiting to pick up our steaks
from the meat counter, Rodney left the lobster tank and rejoined me,
standing patiently with his hands at his side.  "Did you get sick of
looking at the lobsters?" I asked.  "Ah, the lobsters must be sleeping
or something," I said, answering my own question.

While making the final rounds to pick up cream and milk, Rodney fell
off the cart, bumping his head on the juice shelf.  Rodney shed brief
tears, but after a quick hug and a chocolate milk from the shelf, we
were back on our way, checking out and packing the wagon with
groceries.  By the time we got home, Rodney was so tired that he
offered to put himself to bed.  "Rodney do it, I can do it myself," he
said, scooping up his blanket and stuffed animals off the couch and
slowly trudging upstairs.  I still joined him upstairs to check his
work, and get him into a diaper.

Rodney slept, and after putting on a Marvin Gaye album, I got to
cooking dinner.  I was preparing steak with mushroom sauce, and a side
of brown butter potatoes.  The steak and mushroom sauce was a tried
and true recipe - butter, shallots, forest mushrooms, cream, reduced
stock and leftover water from soaking the mushrooms.  But the potatoes
fell apart on me.  It turns out that if you cook peeled potatoes in a
saucepan with butter, it had better be non stick.  Over an hour, after
continuous frying and detaching, they had left a nasty layer of burnt
starch and butter caked to the bottom.  Though I was still able to
salvage some pretty decent buttery mashed potatoes from the wreckage,
cleaning that pan would be a problem later.  "As a final step," I said
in my best food blogger personality voice, "just throw that pan in the
garbage, because it's ruined and you will never use it again."

I didn't throw the pan away.  Quite the opposite actually - last night
I discovered a great way to clean pans afflicted with tough, burnt
residue.  I filled it with water, added a drop of dish soap, and got
it up to a rolling boil on the stove.  After only fifteen minutes, I
was able to scrape the bottom of the pan with a heat proof rubber
spatula, and the residue came off immediately.  So that's my current
favorite cleaning tip, and I hope it saves you the same twenty minutes
of scraping and scrubbing in the sink that it saved me.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, and I caught up on chores while
Marissa did a resin session in the basement.  Ziggy was so tired from
agility that she stayed curled up in the same spot in the armchair.
Checking on her periodically through the night, she looked like a tiny
fuzzy throw pillow.

That's what I got today.  This morning, we're going to church, picking
up groceries, and having some friends over to watch the super bowl.  I
was tempted to wear my Bears jersey to church, and just the thought of
how inappropriate and controversial that would be still makes me
laugh, but I think I'll abstain and just wait until I get home.

Hope you all have a wonderful day, and here's to an entertaining super
bowl.  Have a great Sunday - thanks for reading!

*** 2020-02-03 Monday church coffee, marinara samples, and the super bowl

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope you're feeling refreshed on this first
full week of February.  Winter is nearly over - we're in the endgame
now.  So if you're like me and you're starting to feel the cabin
fever, rest easy knowing we're almost into spring.

Yesterday was a pretty great day.  After setting up Rodney on the
couch with some food and writing a journal entry, our flurry of a
Sunday morning carried us all in the car backing out of the driveway
with five minutes before church.  We had hot coffee in thermoses and
some fragments of a blueberry muffin.  Rodney, out of protest for
having to wear a button down shirt, made it clear that he would be
leaving his coat on and his hood up for the whole day, and he followed
through with the activism even while we were dropping him off in
Sunday school.  Sure enough, he wandered into the gaggle of kids
playing in the corner of the muggy Sunday school classroom wearing his
thick Carhart jacket zipped to the top, hood up.  "What's the
over/under he's still wearing it when we get back?" I joked to Marissa
before we left.

We had a nice church service.  Marissa and I snuck in a few minutes
late, sitting in the back row drinking coffee.  I used to be self
conscious drinking coffee in church, but I've observed that our church
is notably pro coffee.  Almost everyone partakes, drinking right out
of mugs, bringing in sugar and stir sticks.  And now that I've gotten
over the self-inflicted mental stigma of drinking coffee in a church
sanctuary, it's become one of my favorite parts about Sunday.  I
mean - come on - is there anything better than leaving your kid
somewhere safe and getting to sit in a room for hour and drink coffee,
uninterrupted?  The sales pitch for church is suddenly very appealing
isn't it?

After church, we stopped by the Sunday school to pick up Rodney.  He
was still rocking his Carhart, zipped all the way to the top, hood up.
And by that time, beads of sweat pooled on his forehead.  "He kept it
on," shrugged Miss Maddie, the Sunday school teacher.  You have to
admire his steadfastness, I guess.

We made our way to the car, and then to Hy-Vee.  Rodney and Marissa
bought a slice of pizza, and I grabbed a pack of sushi and a diet coke
before joining them at a booth in the cafe.  I quickly wolfed down my
lunch, then made a grocery list for Marissa, punching in each
ingredient of her taco tip as she read aloud from a web page on her
phone.

Leaving the cafe to get our groceries, Hy-Vee was noticeably busier
and difficult to navigate - especially with the big, unwieldy kids
seat cart styled like a police car that Rodney insisted on.  To
further complicate things, a presumptuous sales lady pinned us down by
the meat counter and talked me into trying all three versions of the
marinaras she was selling.  "I don't know who I'm rooting for in the
superbowl," she said, handing me a third spoonful of red sauce.  "My
nickname is /KC/, so I should cheer for the Chiefs, right?"

Back at home, Rodney shed is button down shirt and happily took a nap.
Marissa cleaned the living room and crashed on the couch.  I remained
in the kitchen, starting on the red sauce for pizza, working on a
shell script in between stirring it on the stove.  More optimizations
to my deep dish recipe precipitated out of cooking yesterday's double
batch.  I discovered you can preserve the friendly bright red color of
the sauce if you simmer it more gently and stir it more frequently.  I
finally figured out how to knead the dough and sponge the extra flour
off the sides of the bowl.  I discovered how much easier it is to wipe
room temperature butter on a room temperature skillet than to melt
cold butter on a hot skillet.

Around five, Alex and Cassie arrived, bringing beer and an intriguing
cookie inside of a pretzel dessert.  After greeting them and setting
down their stuff, I turned to get the game on TV.  The process of
finding a free internet stream, casting it to the TV in the living
room, and configuring the audio so it only played from one device is
all so insanely complicated, I've actually grown really proud of it.
"It involves an Xbox controller, the TV remote, a bluetooth speaker,
our desktop computer.  Set the TV volume to one, set the computer
volume to max..." I rambled.

"Why don't you just mute the TV?"  Asked Cassie.  My eyes widened,
eager to divulge more of the method to my madness.  "Because then you
have to look at the blinking 'tv muted' indicator on the TV the entire
game.  Setting it to 1 effectively mutes it without the warning," I
proudly explained.

I got Rodney out of his room, waking him up from his nap.  Hearing
Alex and Cassie downstairs, he shot out of bed and rushed downstairs,
immediately greeting them and showing them his toys.  We watched the
game, eating pizza on the couch.  "This is a special day for Rodney,"
I explained.  "This is the second meal he's gotten to eat on the
couch."  Rodney gave a knowing smile in his chair with his single
slice of pizza and plate resting on his lap.

The Superbowl entertained us this year.  The half time show was good,
but just weird enough to ensure we'd be talking about it throughout
the week.  Shakira's weird face and tongue noise right up in the
camera, along with the random shot of her playing the drums stand out
to me this morning as the surreal highlights.  The commercials were
solid - plenty of hits and stinkers, and a good number of very big
budget out-of-touch attempts at touching commercials.  And of course,
the football was great too.  We got to see a stellar Niners running
game, some good turnovers, and a Kansas City trademark crazy comeback
late in the game.  "I called it," I bragged.  "The Chiefs would score
three touchdowns in a row in like two minutes."

We bid Cassie and Alex farewell and cleaned up the house, then went
upstairs for our Sunday meeting.  This week, Marissa and I have lots
of exciting work planned.  Temporarily moving out of our house to get
our floors redone is a stand-out - being only four weeks away, we're
starting to take things more seriously.

This morning, Marissa woke up with a sore throat, so I'm hanging
around the house for reinforcements, running interface with Rodney so
she can rest up.  It doesn't feel fair that Marissa got sick.  It felt
like she was still getting over the last one.  Gotta love that weak
pregnancy immune system, right?

Hope you all have a wonderful week.  Let's get this Monday!

*** 2020-02-04 Tuesday quesadillas, backpacks, chicken soup, and picking up toys

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Just a warning, it's supposed to be much
colder today.  It's funny - yesterday as I was taking out the garbage
in a short sleeve t shirt, I think I convinced myself that spring was
right around the corner.  /It might only be 37 degrees outside, but I/
/swear the air smells different/.  Today is a high of 27.  Spring will
get here eventually, but in the meantime, back to thick, bulky winter
clothes.

Yesterday was a quiet Monday.  Poor Marissa, dealing with a terrible
sore throat, had a doctor's appointment in the morning.  Due to a
routine test she was preparing for, she couldn't eat or drink anything
after midnight - including morning coffee.  She slipped out of the
house in the early morning while I was writing at my desk.

By 8, Rodney was up, peeking his head out into the hallway from his
cracked door.  Yesterday morning, I acknowledged him before he felt
the need to resort to his silly morning "bird calls".  /Hellooooo?/
/HELLOOOOOO?/ I changed him, started his wash, and set him up by the
TV with a bowl of Cheerios and a glass of milk.  To his
disappointment, we were fresh out of "peanut butter cereal", but I
made sure to add it to the grocery list to appease him.

I had to make sure Rodney was comfortable.  I would attend meetings
from my desk throughout the entire morning, and Rodney almost made it.
Around 10:30, out of boredom he started to wander around our bedroom
and carry a conversation with me, and I had to sternly send him back
downstairs.

I feel bad for the kid.  It must be hard staying cooped up in the
living room pretty much all day, especially when you're growing and
finding all kinds of new strength and energy.  I think I still
remember what it feels like to be restless enough to make you want to
leap off the top of the couch, or zip your toys across the room at the
wall.

Marissa returned just as my meetings were wrapping up for the day,
climbing into bed at 11 and quickly falling asleep.  Rodney and I
moved to the kitchen to make some lunch.  I diverted him from his
usual PB&J and got him excited about making some quesadillas on the
stove.  "Dude, we got taco salad - it's like a theme.  /It'd be
perfect/," I said, dropping the big bag of shredded Mexican cheese and
stack of tortillas on the cutting bored.  /It'd be perfect/, repeated
Rodney.

Since we were only dealing with a small nonstick skillet with butter
on low heat, I thought it was fine to let Rodney take point.  He
scooted the step ladder over to the stove and gripped the plastic
spatula in anticipation, watching me gently flop the tortillas into
the pan.  Some cheese rolled out and hissed.  "It's no big deal dude,"
I said.  "We just wipe it out with a paper towel.  Quesadillas are
awesome dude."  Rodney used the spatula to gently flip the tortillas.
Seeing the glistening and crusty side compelled him to say "Oh
/tasty/."

Rodney and I ate lunch together at the table, sharing a pair of
quesadillas, some taco dip, and a pack of paw patrol fruit snacks.  As
usual, he cautioned me about my liberal use of hot sauce.  /Careful
dada spicy./  Rodney started out the window for a minute, then started
a new conversation.  "Dada, Rodney go to school... wear backpack?" he
asked, gesturing around his waist.

"Oh yeah dude, I suppose you should start thinking about school.
Momma and I actually wanted to start figuring that out this week, it's
on the project board," I replied.  Rodney smiled and continued staring
out the window.  Truthfully, Rodney gets excited about anything that
requires him to bring a backpack, because that usually means some kind
of adventure.  Bring Your Kid to Work Day, staging with Grandma and
Grandpa, or going on a road trip.

We wrapped up lunch, and with Marissa still sleeping upstairs, I
worked in the living room with Rodney while we watched a movie.
Rodney had dumped all his toys on the ground, but still listlessly
waded through them on the floor, like a shallow pond.  I put him down
for a nap, then quietly worked on the couch through the afternoon,
taking breaks to pet Ziggy, who lounged on the head of the couch like
a lazy lioness at the zoo.

Just as I was wrapping up work at 4, Marissa crept down the stairs and
joined me on the couch.  "It's amazing how much I can sleep," she
remarked, sleepily trying to blink herself awake.  "Yeah, you slept
pretty much the whole day.  Are you feeling better?  What day does it
feel like right now?"

I got Rodney up to go to Hy-Vee, but seeing that Mom was awake, he
wanted to stay home and play.  "C'mon dude, momma's still not feeling
good, let's get out of the house and let her wake up."  Rodney
reluctantly joined me outside in the car, but out of protest he
refused to take his hands out of his pockets - even in the parking lot
where I normally pick him up and swing him around by his waist so he
can enter Hy-Vee with style.  I still picked him up and acted it out,
but rather than spider man, it looked more like a floating stubborn
garden gnome or a tiny stoic mannequin.

We picked up groceries, as well as a new box of /peanut butter
cereal/.  "Now I think I know where the peanut butter cereal is, but
you'll have to help me find the exact box," I explained aloud in the
aisle.  Overhearing us, a lady held up a box of Reeses' Puffs.  "Oh
thank you," I replied.  "It's more a matter of figuring out what /he/
means by 'peanut butter cereal'."

We picked up chicken thighs, chicken stock, noodles, bread, and a
beautiful little bunch of garden fresh carrots and parsley.  But
flustered at the self-checkout aisle, I forgot to take home the
carrots and parsley.  "I'm going to have to roll with these old wed
baby carrots in our fridge," I said to Marissa back at home chopping
vegetables.

Yesterday's highlight was our homemade chicken soup.  Everything about
chicken noodle soup is comforting - the sound of onions sweating in
hot butter.  The smell of chicken fat gathering on the rumbling
surface of simmering stock.  The feeling of slicing a warm french
loaf.

We ate dinner, then Marissa guided Rodney in a new evening ritual of
cleaning up toys.  "Momma might not be able to bend over and pick up
your toys for much longer," she explained.  She looked at me and
smirked.  "He actually helps a lot - look at him.  He likes to clean."
Before long, our living room, once flooded with a tide of scattered
cars, planes, and dinosaurs, was spotless.  "There's nothing better
than waking up to clean toys!" remarked Marissa as I marched Rodney up
the stairs for a bath and bed.

I hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday.  Today's recommendations are:
pick up your toys before bed, eat chicken soup, and sleep as long as
you can when you're sick.  Have a great day everyone, and thanks for
reading.

*** 2020-02-05 Wednesday funk, sausage, and bus stories

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  I'm feeling
clear headed and strong this morning, and this Collectivo Brazilian
blend of coffee is hitting me just right.  This morning, since I'm
working from home for the day, I skipped the usual shower, and I had
plenty of time to quietly sit at my desk with coffee and get my
thoughts together.  To pair with the no-shower day, I'm wearing my
favorite pair of sweats and my 'hide-my-greasy-hair' beanie.  I'm
already getting the sense that I'm not going anywhere today.

Yesterday morning, after finishing my blog post and kicking of the
script that blasts it out to the Internet, I foolishly tried running a
second script that syncs my notes to my work computer.  With my
journal saved within my notes, they stepped on each other, and the
three extra minutes it took me to fix things caused me to miss my bus.
Just as I was walking around the corner, I saw the number 15 bus pull
away.  I don't miss my bus often, but the next time I do, I won't be
so worried.  The 6 runs only five minutes behind it, and it
mysteriously reaches the square at the same time as the 15.  Don't ask
me why it works, but it does.

Work was sort of a thinking day.  I spent the morning mauling over the
task I had taken that week, and after talking it over with the team
and anguishing about it in our slack channel, I decided to stick it
back in the backlog and take something else.  I get kind of restless
when I go a few days without finishing something concrete.  Being
Wednesday without anything to show for the week, the situation has put
me in a minor funk.

I would love to be able to finish the same amount of work every day,
but I guess that's just not how work /works/.  Some weeks, you do more
work than you'd normally do in a whole month, and some weeks feel like
they slip away without anything to show for it.

I took a break at 11 to find a quiet place to eat my chicken noodle
soup.  After gulping it down and cracking open an energy drink, I
spent some time hacking on a home project - this week's IT project
card that I was falling behind on.  Karl and Heath joined me at the
table, and later Julia, so I shut my laptop and chatted with them.
Karl too has a kid on the way, and we're both departing for paternity
leave within a month of each other.  When I had my fill of small talk,
I went for a quick walk around the square, then returned to my desk
and worked through the rest of the afternoon.

I jumped off the bus, and Rodney was waiting for me by the back porch.
He flung open the door, letting the dogs out, then ran down the porch
stairs in his bare feet to greet me by the fence.  "I missed you
dude!" I yelled hoisting him into the air.

As I unpacked my things, Marissa and I chatted about dinner plans.
"I feel like making stamppot," I said.  "You always feel like making
stamppot," Marissa laughed.  "Instead of sausage, can we do it with
chicken?" she added.

I rolled my eyes.  "Then it's no longer a one pot meal.  What if we do
chicken sausage?" I countered.  Marissa wandered around in thought,
then conceded.  "OK," she said.  "I'll try the chicken sausage."

Rodney and I went to Hy-Vee together.  He was in a great mood, and
lately the cereal aisle gets him really pumped.  I asked him for his
help in restocking our to-go breakfast cubbie by the coffee bar, and
he jumped on the opportunity to pick out some cereal bars.  We went
with chocolate oatmeal, and just to even things out, I picked up some
fruit bars and an extra box of stroopwafels.

Back at home, I got to peeling potatoes and rinsing kale, and Marissa
joined me in the kitchen to chat.  "I'm in kind of a funk this week at
work," I shared, as she sat on the shelf beside the counter,
empathetically listening.  Sometimes, just talking somebody about a
problem is it's own solution - no solution necessary.

"Alright, it's about time to eat," I said, jabbing a quartered potato
with a fork and giving the cabbage a final toss.  As Marissa got
Rodney and began setting the table, I mashed the potatoes and kale,
blending them into a gentle green, buttery paste.  I've cut down on
the amount of water in my stamppot recipe.  I used to fill the pot up
and completely drain the potatoes before mashing them, but I think you
get better color, flavor, and consistency if you try to preserve as
much of the water is possible.  Instead of draining them in a
colander, I leeched about a half cup of water out with a plastic cup
and left the rest.

We ate at the dinner table, and after finishing our food, Marissa and
I sat content while Rodney continued poking at his potatoes.  "How was
the sausage?" I asked.  Marissa looked down at her plate.  "It was
good," she hesitated.  "I mean... as far as sausage goes."

We sat in silence for another minute, then I decided to break into a
bus story.  "So this really old guy today boarded the bus, and he was
touching as many things as possible as he hobbled over to a seat," I
began, getting out of my chair to demonstrate.  "He found the seat
next to me, sunk down, and rested his bony elbow right... here."  I
jabbed my elbow into Marissa's side and glared at Rodney.  "He rode
the last three of my stops like that, with his elbow digging into my
side."

Marissa laughed, and Rodney joined in.  "I'm surprised you don't
complain about the bus more," Marissa said.  "I think I would complain
about it every day."  Truthfully, the bus isn't that bad.  Most days,
everyone is a good citizen, and based on what I've observed, people
love hearing bus stories.

I think I'll close this entry with my favorite bus story.  Let me take
you back to last summer - it was hot and muggy, even in the morning.
I was riding the 15 to work, and as usual, the 15 packed with standing
room only.  Every seat was taken, except for a half seat beside a
heavy set guy.  His head was rolled back, his legs were splayed out,
and he was sleeping so deeply that he was practically snoring with his
mouth open.  Being good, polite bus riders, everyone ignored the
scene - except for this one hip guy wearing a tight black t-shirt and
jeans.  He took out his phone, aimed it squarely at the heavy set guy,
and snapped a picture.  His phone even made a quiet camera shutter
sound.  My face turned beet red, and other people standing around
started to feel uncomfortable.  /That's terrible/, I thought.  /You
can't just take a/ /picture of someone while they're sleeping/ /just
to embarrass them./ /Should I confront him?  Will somebody else say
something?/

Tensions grew as the young guy smirked to himself.  I could tell he
was sending the photo to somebody.  His fingers moved over the
keyboard, as if he were writing a text.

Suddenly, the heavy set guy's phone rang, buzzing in his shirt pocket
and waking him up from his nap.  He took out his phone, studied the
screen, then his head shot up, scanning the bus.  His eyes met the guy
who took a picture of them, and they both bursted into laughter.
Apparently they new each other, and the text he sent to him said
something like "I can see you sleeping".

So that's currently my best bus story.  Hope you all have a great day
today.

*** 2020-02-06 Thursday friends on the computer, po'boys, and swinging axes

Dear Journal,

Good morning!  Happy Thursday.  We're almost done with this week, and
I think that's worth celebrating.  I love the point in a busy work
week when you 'come up for air', so to speak, and the weekend seems
much closer than you thought.  Our weekend waits a mere day away.  I
think we're going to make it, everyone.  I'm feeling pretty good this
morning, and looking forward to attacking a day of work, getting home,
and cooking something tasty.

Yesterday morning began with Rodney waking up in his room, peeking his
head out the door, and moaning /helooOOOOOO/ into our dark hallway
until somebody heard him.  Of course, sitting only in our bedroom, not
only could I hear Rodney, but I could look over and see him from where
I was typing at the computer.  After finishing my morning journal
entry, I beckoned him over, and soon we were downstairs grabbing
something to eat.

I set Rodney up on the couch with a fresh outfit, a bowl of peanut
butter cereal, and his favorite YouTube water slide playlist.  He also
manage to steal a bite from my cereal bar.  Once he settled in on the
couch, I left Rodney to remotely join morning our team's stand-up from
our dining room table.

The meeting continued, and hearing the commotion of our work talk
mixed with joking around, Rodney got up off the couch and joined me at
the table, leaning into the camera.  I turned my laptop so we would
both be in frame.  Rodney started to /ham/ it up, waving, miming with
his Green Dino stuffed animal, and leaning in close to the camera.
"What's your take on configuration languages, Rodney?  Is this
functional style experiment worth exploring?" said my teammate Alex.

"/Uhduhuhderuhderuhder/... don't know.  Hey, green dino!" Rodney
hoisted Green Dino right up to the webcam.  His antics were a welcomed
brief comedic relief to our meeting, and Rodney appreciated the
opportunity to /say 'hi' to Daddy's friends on the computer/ -
something he now thinks can take place at any time on any screen in
the house.  You should have seen how disappointed he was to learn he
couldn't say goodnight to everyone on the computer screen.

I worked through the morning, and soon Marissa returned with the dogs
from agility class.  We moved to the kitchen to heat up some lunch.
Rodney and I had leftover stamppot with red cabbage and chicken
sausage.  I doused mine generously with spicy horseradish sauce.
Marissa, feeling queasy just opted for a grapefruit.  "You guys go
ahead," she advised "I'm going to do one of my weird pregnancy
breakfasts."

I finished up lunch, then set up in our bedroom for some meetings,
taking a beer with me. After finishing lunch and putting Rodney to
bed, Marissa joined me in the bedroom to make dinner plans before
leaving for another errand.  That afternoon, she left for UW campus to
hang up some of her art, which would be on display in a hallway in the
continued education building.

I worked the rest of the afternoon, and by the time I shut my laptop
Marissa had returned home.  I crashed on the couch, followed closely
by Rodney, who asked to watch a movie.  "No dude, sorry," I said while
slumping backwards into the cushions.  "Daddy had a long day, we're
going to watch his videos."  I queued up some YouTube videos, then
feeling my eyes get heavy, I switched on some water slides for Rodney
in hopes that he would let me drift off to sleep until dinner.  I
slept as much as you could have with a toddler bouncing on your
stomach and legs.

We had talked earlier about going downtown for dinner, but the evening
darkness and chill was seducing us into an easier evening, and we
decided to eat at the Ale Asylum instead.  We found a quiet table in
the back, ordered some drinks, and soon our food arrived.  I ordered a
shrimp po'boy that was the size of a regulation football, and to my
absolute horror, I finished everything on my plate.  "I can't help
it," I said to Marissa in the spirit of repentance.  "This food goes
down so smooth."  I had even removed the bread to pick at the shrimp,
in hopes that would curb my appetite, but I finished my bread too.

As we sat enjoying the last few bits of our meal, Marissa and I griped
about the week.  "It's a long one," I said.  "I'm tired, and I could
use a weekend."

I finished a second beer while chaperoning Rodney at the pinball
machines.  Maybe their initial charm and wonder have worn off, because
Rodney was much more relaxed about them.  He played through a five
dollar bill, which he politely asked the bartender to break for him,
adding "Thank... YOU SO MUCH!"

Marissa and I agreed to 'tag team' bedtime.  That meant she takes care
of the bath, pajamas, and teeth, and I get the bedtime story as well
as the long meandering bedtime routine which Rodney sometimes takes
advantage of.  As Marissa drew a bath, I collapsed on our bed and shut
my eyes, immediately waking up to a showered and pajama-clad Rodney
leaping onto the bed with me.  The shrimp po'boy felt like a bomb
sitting in my stomach.  "I'm sick from the Ale Asylum too," said
Marissa commiserating with me.  "It goes down so smooth," I said.  "I
think I just need to work through the pain."

Last night was a work night.  Along with Wednesday chores, we had to
break down two tables in the basement and get them in the car so
Marissa could carry them to the dump.  We spent twenty minutes trying
to find an allen wrench, then in a stroke of clarity, Marissa grabbed
her saw instead.  "I'm just going to saw the legs off," said Marissa,
widening her stance and holding the table up with one hand.  One table
down.

I managed to get the second table upstairs and outside on the deck.
The legs were made of metal, so no sawing could be done, but I grabbed
a rusty axe that was sitting in our shed and swung it at the top
shelf.  It broke in half, making a loud /pop/ that reverberated off
the neighboring houses.  I felt satisfied.  How often do you get to
swing an axe, and when you do, how often does it work this well?

We concluded the night by moving our bookshelf into the basement.  Our
bedroom is looking eerily empty, which is encouraging, because floor
refinishing week is just around the corner, and it feels good to make
some noticeable progress on the massive undertaking.

Marissa and I crashed on the couch.  I got an Italian Ice cup from the
freezer spiked with a half shot of tequila.  We watched the last hour
of /Close Encounters of the Third Kind/.  It was a good night.

I hope you have a great day today.  As always, thanks for reading.  I
sincerely hope you too find an excuse to swing an axe at something
this week - I highly recommend it.

*** 2020-02-07 Friday work talk, pan sauces, ginseng, and youtube binges

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday.  It's been a long week, and I'm
grateful I get to say that this morning.  I could use a Friday, and
I'm looking forward to resting up this weekend.  I might even sleep in
tomorrow - who knows.  My Saturday morning alarm has always been low
priority, and something tells me that after this week, it doesn't
stand a chance tomorrow.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  I found a nice, juicy bug to work on
all morning somewhere in our build pipeline.  It sounds annoying, but
truth be told of all the work I might take in a week - collaborating
on documents, writing instructions, setting up demonstrations,
implementing new features - bug fixes are the most straight forward.
There's little interpretation that goes into the success criteria of a
bug.  Chances are, you don't have to run anything by anyone or set up
a meeting to talk about it.  Your work is simply done when the bug is
fixed, and there's nothing more to talk about.  It's like filling out
a cross word puzzle - Relaxing, and unambiguously finish-able.

Lunch time rolled around, and we three /cloumigos/ decided to go out
together.  We walked together up the block to Tavernakaya, sat at a
quiet table, and ordered a round of beers.  We chatted about work,
commiserating about the usual things, then got to talking about home
life, the weekend, and free time.

"I'm playing around with a kubernetes cluster at home," I said.  "I'm
having a lot of fun with it."  Alex shook his head. "I don't know how
you go home and do that stuff, infrastructure is the last thing I feel
like thinking about when I get home," replied Alex.  He continued.
"As much as I hate to be the guy who sits in front of the TV after
work, I almost need to do that."

Whereas I'm just a regular engineer, Alex is a group tech lead.  He's
responsible for weighing in on architectural discussions happening in
other teams and keeping everyone in sync.  Chances are he has a lot
more to think about at work than I do.

Rob nodded in agreement.  "Yeah, I don't want to think about any of
that shit either," he said gruffly.  Rob is a long time Zendesk
engineer - the only one seated at that table for three that predates
my time.  He's coming up on five years.  "So Robbo, you're coming up
on five years," Alex began.  "That means you're taking a sabbatical
soon, right?"  Rob nodded and smiled.  "Oh it's still a thing," he
said knowingly.

We continued talking over a second round of drinks, then made the walk
back to the office.  Rob paused outside for a cigarette.  Alex and I
huddled around him to carry on talking.  The wind picked up, and Alex
and I went inside.  "That's the real reason why I could never pick up
smoking," Alex said to me.  "I'm not good at standing outside when
it's cold out."  I laughed, and we took the elevator up and returned
to work.

I worked the rest of the afternoon, then paused at four to make a
grocery list for tonight.  Wanting to broaden my repertoire, I did a
quick google search for basic pan sauces.  My go to has up until this
point been apple cider vinegar, apple juice, and honey.  /Any alcohol
can be used in a pan sauce,/ I read.  The inclusion of beer piqued my
interest.  I shut my laptop and headed out into the cold to catch the
bus home.

Coming home, I entered the house quietly.  It wasn't until I opened
our back door, causing our alarm system to chirp, that Ziggy could be
heard running through the dining room to greet me at the door.  She
yawned, curled up at my feet, and following close behind was Ollie.
Marissa was in and out of a nap on the couch with the Office quietly
playing on the TV.  I greeted her, then went upstairs to get Rodney.
Rodney was sleeping deeply, and even for his high strung toddler
energy, it took a couple of shakes to wake him.

Rodney and I hopped in the car and got to chatting about his day.  He
had gone to Canine Sports Zone with momma, and he was really excited
about what he ate for lunch.  "Rice /krappy/, juice, goldfish... but
rice /krappy/ first!" he proclaimed.  Rodney is a staunch believer
that desert, in this case a rice crispy bar, should be enjoyed first.

We shopped, picking up pork chops, potatoes, and restocking on
Marissa's favorite blueberry muffins.  As we swung around the outside
of the store, Rodney called my attention.  "Uh, I have to go potty,"
he said.  I glanced at the time on my phone and decided we could
afford the extra trip all the way in the back by the bakery to use the
potty.  It was a false alarm.

Back at home, I cooked dinner, assembling my beer and stone ground
mustard pan sauce.  The base of the idea was good, but fearing it
would bitter, I used a little too much honey and reduced it too much.
The final product came out looking like - well - honey.  As we sat
around the table talking, I got up to make a cup of tea.  After Fong
made me a cup of ginseng tea when I was sick, I ordered some from the
internet.  It's essentially a little bag of fragrant sticks, like
cinnamon, only if it branched.  I cracked a few twigs into a mug,
added a dab of honey, and filled it with hot water before rejoining my
family at the table.  I took a sip, letting out a deeply satisfied
sigh.  "Oh, this is a new thing," I said pointing at my tea.

Marissa wanted to get a jump on a large painting she was working, so I
offered to put Rodney to bed.  After walking through his bedtime
routine and finishing up my Dutch lesson, I crashed on the couch,
followed closely by Ziggy who joined be under the blanket.  Thursday
nights are my lazy night, and I usually spend the entire night on the
couch binging YouTube videos.  Last night, nestled under the blanket
with Ziggy, I watched Stephane of the French Cooking academy braise a
pork shoulder in milk.  The milk was supposed to curdle, he explained,
which is why he passed it through a sieve before thickening it with
chunks of bread.  I teased Marissa that I found our next dinner idea.
She gagged at the mere thought of a piece of meat simmering in milk.

I spent the rest of the evening watching recipe videos for making Nasi
Goreng.  I'm keen on the idea, but I'll proceed with caution, as every
time I've embarked on making fried rice, it's been a thorny path
fraught with peril - and nearly destroying the bottom of my pan.

I'm thankful the weekend is here.  Tomorrow is my niece's birthday,
and we're driving down to Chicago to see everyone.  Rodney, catching
wind that he'd be hanging out with his cousins, is ecstatic, but I
worry he thinks that every time we see them means a day of
water slides.  That's the toddler brain for ya.

Hope you all have a wonderful day.  Thanks for reading, and welcome to
the weekend!

*** 2020-02-08 Saturday skeleton crews, pbs canvassers, and new independence

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope this Saturday finds you well, and you're
finding energy this weekend.  At the moment, Marissa is getting ready
in the bathroom and Rodney is munching on some Peanut Butter Captain
Crunch on the couch watching YouTube videos.  Ziggy waits patiently in
her crate, as instructed by Marissa.  "Ziggy has no self control with
peanut butter captain crunch - I don't trust her," she said.

I'm feeling good today.  In a few minutes, we'll hit the road for
Chicago to celebrate cousin Alice's birthday, but first, I'm going to
knock out a journal entry while everyone is content.

Yesterday's work day was nice.  Our entire team took the day off, with
the exception of me, Fong, and Alex.  "We got the /skeleton crew/
today," I said as we gathered around for our morning stand-up.  Fong
looked puzzled.  "That's what they call a crew who is short on
workers," said Alex, shedding light on my jargon.  "It can also refer
to when your team is short on people, /and/ they spend the day dressed
wearing matching skeleton costumes," I joked, dancing like a skeleton
to emphasize the terrible joke.

After clearing up the American jargon, we quietly worked on projects
through the morning, and in the afternoon Alex broke out some Japanese
whiskey he received as a gift.  We sat around his desk sipping on
whiskey and chatting, and I remained by their desks through the
afternoon without my computer, riding shotgun while Alex took me
through a configuration library he was designing.  "I hope you all
don't mind me hanging out here," I remarked.  "I think I'm sometimes a
better listener without my computer to distract me, and I'd like to
listen to what you're working on."

We concluded the work day with our end of the week meeting, enjoying a
few more sips of whiskey while we chatted about work, home life, and
what this year looks like for us.  Fong perked up, hearing I'd be
temporarily living on Willie street for a week while our floors were
refinished.  "We'll be neighbors," she said, taking out her phone and
showing me her favorite spots on Google maps.  I informally agreed to
beach outing with the dogs.

I jumped the bus home, where I found Marissa busily working on a
painting in the basement.  I peeked my head into the resin tent and
greeted her.  "What do you feel like for dinner?" I asked.  Marissa,
stared blankly and shrugged her shoulders.  "Feel like going out?" I
asked.  She nodded, and I happily ran upstairs to crash on the couch
with Ziggy until dinner time.

Soon, Rodney joined me on the couch after waking up from a terrible
dream.  He was in such a bad mood, he barely greeted me before
nestling under his blanket on the couch, sheepishly asking me to put
on water slide videos.  "I've got a better idea, dude," I said.  "Have
you ever seen a /roller coaster/?"

/Roollerrr... coaster...?/, repeated Rodney.  "Dude, they're awesome,"
added Marissa joining us on the couch.  "It's like a water slide
without any water."  I took a moment to appreciate how odd, but
accurate of an explanation that was.  Could you imagine using those
words to describe a /roller coaster/ to someone who's only seen water
slides?

We spent the next forty minutes lounging around on the couch watching
videos of roller coasters, eventually transitioning to skateboard
videos.  As we lay there soaking up a precious, lazy Friday afternoon,
there was a loud rap on the door.  Marissa looked at me and rolled her
eyes.  "I'll get it," I said, groaning while emerging from a pile of
blankets and snuggles.

On our porch waited a thin, pale younger kid bundled up in a winter
jacket and gloves.  He was holding some pamphlets and a clipboard -
the dark harbinger of a terribly awkward conversation.  "Good evening,
how are you?" he asked while staring at me blankly.  "Do you have a
moment to talk about the financial needs of PBS?"  I patiently
listened to his pitch, waiting for an inlet to dismiss myself, but he
was persistent and tenacious.  "I'll take care of it online later," I
said, waving my hand dismissively and reaching for the door knob.
"Sir, I'm going to be honest with you, most people who say they will
sign up online don't follow through, and I'd really like to get you
set up right now, tonight."  Almost as if being conned by a slimy
street magician with crafty sleight of hand, suddenly instead of
holding my doorknob, I was holding his clipboard, turned to a blank
page with a sign up form.  "I'm different.  I promise you," I stated,
gently shoving the clipboard back into his arms.  "I follow through
with things."

"Sir, but you already admitted you find PBS programming valuable," he
interrupted me.  Suddenly his tone changed, like I was about to be
fingered for a murder.

"I promise you.  I'll do it online," I repeated, wrapping my fingers
more tightly around our doorknob.  The canvaser surrendered, nodding
and trudging away from our door.  Spoiler alert - I didn't sign up
online.  Yes, at some point in the awful conversation, I admitted to
/finding PBS programming valuable/.  But it's 2020.  You can't bully
people during dinner time on their front porch.  That's the kind of
psychological warfare that's only socially acceptable on the Internet.

"OK, I'm getting hungry, can we get on with this night?" I said
clapping my hands, trying to get everyone off the couch.  Marissa
frowned at me, and I immediately realized my error.  "Sorry," I
admitted in a softer tone.  "That PBS guy really put me in a bad
mood."

We jumped in the car and found a table at Glass Nickel.  I enjoyed a
beer and a toasted BLT while Marissa and Rodney polished off a veggie
pizza.  At some point, Rodney flagged down the waitress to tell her
about all the animals he saw in the zoo, and she was a good sport
about it, thanking him for letting her in on the day's events.  We
paid the check and headed home.  The beer and the sandwich put me in a
good mood, and the pushy PBS canvasser that put me in a bad mood was a
distant memory.

While putting Rodney to bed, I was suddenly inspired to try something
new.  "Hey Rod," I said.  His head perked up.  "You're wearing a
diaper, would you mind getting your pajamas on then brushing your
teeth?  I'm going to start a load of wash."  Rodney nodded, and there
was a new sparkle of independence in his eyes.  I trudged downstairs
with a basket of laundry.  Marissa spied on Rodney from around the
corner in her gallery.

"He did really well," said Marissa as I was coming back up the stairs.
"You should have seen how carefully he rinsed his toothbrush."  Rodney
was in his room seated at the foot of his bed.  He looked like a tiny
Mr. Rodgers, carefully stepping into each of his slippers in
preparation for bed time.  I read him a story, then tucked him in for
the night.

Hope you all have a wonderful Saturday.  If you see Alice, wish her a
Happy Birthday.  And if you see someone with a PBS clipboard at your
door this evening, do yourself a favor and wait until they walk away.

*** 2020-02-09 Sunday alice's party and the resin tent

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Sunday.  After a busy Saturday of
traveling and working in the basement, the whole family slept in this
morning.  I woke up a little past 9:30, hearing Rodney rustling toys
and books around in his bedroom.  By 10, we were all on the couch
watching YouTube and eating omelettes, and so far that's the mood for
today.

Yesterday was a great day, but a busy one.  Before jumping in the car
to head to Alice's birthday party, Marissa could be seen on the
kitchen floor trimming the dogs' nails, and Rodney was busily darting
around the play room packing his backpack with toys.  I was packing
peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for the road and clearing out our
fridge of any especially volatile leftovers.  We hit the road, and
after putting in Kelly and Jeremy's address into the GPS, we
congratulated ourselves for the perfect timing.  Our ETA was twenty
minutes before the party would start, allowing almost the perfect
amount of time for a coffee & potty stop in my old stomping grounds of
the Streets of Woodfield.

We parked, and with Marissa remaining in the car with the dogs
contently snuggling in the back seat, Rodney and I walked hand-in-hand
through the busy mall parking lot.  We found the bathroom in the back
corner of the cafe.  "Dude, I used to clean this bathroom every single
night," I said, helping Rodney use the potty.

Rodney and I waited in line, ordering two cups of coffee and a
birthday cake pop.  Rodney politely thanked the Barista, and climbed
up onto the high chair beside the bar.  Returning to the car, I smiled
handing Marissa the cup of coffee.  "I sprung for something special,"
I said.  "Something that you can only get here."  They had Jamaica
Blue Mountain on the menu, and it had been too long since I got to
taste what I would confidently call the most perfect coffee on earth.
Mellow, fruity, nutty - it tastes like the inside of a leather
suitcase smells, or like how it feels to ride in a limo.  As we got
back on the road, I reminisced with Marissa about how lucky I felt to
drink one of these practically whenever I felt like it while working
at that store.

We arrived at Alice's house.  Kelly greeted us by the curb, holding a
handful of items that they had accidentally taken home with them when
they stayed at our place.  "Here, we have stuff you left at our house
too," I said, retrieving a phone charger from my coat pocket.  "We'll
probably do this every time we see each other," I joked.

Kelly and Jeremy's house was already buzzing with family.  Herb and
Beth were hanging around, Kelly was in the kitchen, and Alice had
already stolen Rodney away to play with toys and jump on the couch.
Seeing our dogs, Frankie excitedly waddled over to us, leaning in for
a kiss from Ziggy.  I helped myself to some beer after finishing my
coffee.

More family started trickling in, and after greeting everyone, we
found seats in the living room.  Becca, Ollie, and Ziggy played in a
frenzy while Jo-Jo stoically looked on from the sidelines, her chest
puffed out like a body guard, staring blankly at the wall.

After opening presents, little Frankie commandeered Alice's new orange
dinosaur toy.  One by one, she would pick someone sitting on the
couch, waddle over to them, and growl as loud as she could, which from
a baby like her, amounted to just a silly little gurgle.  We egged her
on, recoiling in fear and sending her in another direction.  All the
while, Jo-Jo still stood stoically, making the whole thing even
funnier.

After eating some chicken pot pie, I followed Rodney and Alice into
the basement.  Almost as if she needed a break from the craziness of
her own party, Alice jumped onto my lap and handed me a story book.
"Is this /Giraffes Can't Dance/?  Alice, I LOVE this book," I said
enthusiastically.  As I read, I mixed in some Dutch words, as I
normally do with Rodney, but it was extra funny since Alice would look
at me with wide eyes and correct me.  "Not /olifant/," she said.
"/Elephant/".  She corrected me with perfect diction.  "Oh oh OK, I
sorry," I replied.  I followed Alice and Rodney upstairs, where we
enjoyed a homemade Dinosaur cake made by Sarah.

After bidding everyone farewell, we packed the car and hit the road.
My eyes started to get heavy after an hour of driving, so Marissa
agreed to take over for the second leg.  We stopped at an oasis.  As
Marissa waited in the drive through at McDonalds, I took Rodney inside
to use the bathroom.  In a slight oversight, I left his shoes in the
car, and while wearing only his socks, it proved to be a bit of a
challenge helping him use the bathroom without touching the floor.

Rodney was in bed by 9:30, and after a quick break outside, I changed
into some work clothes and joined Marissa in the basement with a box
of black garbage bags.  We set aside last night after the party to
tear down the old resin tent - a large structure made up of PVC tubing
and clear plastic tarp taped together.  Marissa hacked down the tarp
with a pocket knife while I cut and wiggled the PVC tubing free.

Next came the table, which was caked with a thick layer of runoff
resin.  On top of the table, latex gloves, paint sticks, and empty
plastic cups were adhered to the surface.  Once removed from the resin
tent, it actually looked more like an interesting art exhibit than
something we were just trying to get into the garbage.

Marissa tried to saw the table in half, but there was too much resin
to cut through.  We instead bent and broke the table legs off, and
together carried the table out to the porch.

Finally, we had to deal with the floor, pieced together with that
black spongy material you might see in a day care or in a school gym,
only it was also adhered together with runoff resin.  I spent the rest
of the night hacking, cracking, and tearing it free, stuffing the
pieces into garbage bags.  At 11:15, we declared victory, sinking into
the couch.  That may have been the hardest I've worked all year, and
after a whole day sitting in the car, it felt good to move, work and
sweat.

"I felt like a kid waking up on Christmas morning," said Marisa today.
I too took an extra minute to happily wander around and check on our
work.  With the demolition complete, today is the easy part.  After
running some errands and picking up lunch at Portillo's, we're going
to set up the new resin tent, which will use a much more practical
collapsible curtain.  Between finishing the tent and shoveling the
fresh snow that fell last night, there will be no shortage of work
today.

Hope you have a great Sunday.  Let's soak it up before the beginning
of another busy work week.

*** 2020-02-10 Monday paintings, snow, and goulash

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  That was definitely one of the busier
weekends I've had.  This morning, as I was showering, getting dressed,
and sleepily passing through my morning routine like a lifeless ghost,
I mentally sang that song from the movie /Sing/ - you know the one
that the gorilla kid sings?  /I'm/ /still standing - yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm still standing - yeah, yeah,/ /yeah.../ And while being at my
breaking point on a Monday morning doesn't sound very promising, the
end is in sight.  Most of yesterday was spent preparing Marissa's
three giant paintings for their trip to New York.  I'm working from
home this morning so I can help get it in the truck.

We got some good relaxing in yesterday morning, at least.  The family
slept in, eating eggs on the couch and watching YouTube videos while I
finished writing.  We got changed and headed out for the day, starting
things off with a Portillo's lunch.  We grabbed a spot in the back and
sank into the comfy booths, eager to dig into Italian beef, chicken
tenders, fries, and a chocolate shake.  As we finished eating, we got
a little more serious about planning the day before departing for
Hy-Vee to pick up groceries.

"I love it when we all pick up groceries together," I said walking
through the Hy-Vee parking lot.  "We always have better snacks in the
house when Momma comes with."  Rodney reach out and grabbed my hand as
we crossed the road in front of Hy-Vee, stretching his other arm out
to the sky, making a /woosh/ sound.  As in our custom, he was
initiating /spider shoot webs/, where I pick him up and let him swing
all the way up to the door.

We picked up groceries, then headed home.  Marissa put Rodney down for
a nap, then one by one, we moved the large paintings to our front
porch so Marissa could get some pictures.  For such a simple task as
standing outside and taking pictures of Marissa in front of a
painting, I had difficulty hiding my grumpiness about the whole thing.
"I don't know what it is," I'd say to her later trying to suss out my
frustration with Marissa in the dining room over some tea.  "Maybe I
just feel silly standing out in the snow taking a photo, or maybe I
don't like having to march back to you in between takes to show you
the photo."

We moved the paintings back inside, and Marissa continued touching up
the sides with white paint while I moved outside to shovel some snow.
Short on time before I had to start dinner, I only managed to finish
our back porch and half the driveway.  The neighbors were also out,
and even though I was in a bad mood, I still offered up my usual small
talk about shoveling snow.  "Happy February, huh?  Oh NOW we get snow,
right?  Great workout!  Hey, I think you missed a spot!"

I headed back into the kitchen, kicking the wet snow off my boots and
exchanging my coat for a cooking apron.  For dinner, I was making beef
goulash.  I cubed some chuck roast and browned it in a pan, later
adding onions.  I toasted caraway seeds, paprika, and cayenne papper,
de-glazing the pan with chicken stock and moving everything to my
dutch oven to let the mixture simmer.  The stock had already taken on
the color of chocolate, and the hot smoky spices lingered in the air.
I would let it simmer for an hour while Rodney, awake from his nap,
helped pull some marjoram leaves apart.  Rodney had just woken up from
his long nap, and at first when he marched into the kitchen, he had
made up his mind about cooking himself a box of paw patrol mac 'n
cheese, but he eventually came around to what I was making for
dinner.  I served the goulash on some buttered shell pasta with a
dollop of sour cream.  "I'm relieved that this tastes good," said
Marissa at the table.  "It smelled so strong in the kitchen, I was
starting to get worried."

"That must have been the spices I was toasting," I replied.  "It
started to smoke, and I'm not sure if that was supposed to happen, so
I killed the heat."

Putting Rodney to bed, we decided to break out his new bilingual Dutch
childnren's book, /Jojo's Speeldag/.  It's a book about an elephant
who, rather than eating his dinner, wanders away and screws around in
the forest.  Of course a Dutch book would be about not cleaning your
plate, right?  Rodney was intrigued.  I alternated between English on
every page, mixing in some fun new words like /snuffel/ (an elephant's
trunk) and /fruitbomen/ (fruit tree).  "How did he like the book?"
asked Marissa.  "He didn't even notice," I laughed.  "We could have
been reading to him in another language all this time for all he
knew."

After putting Rodney to bed, I rejoined Marissa in the dining room to
finish packing the paintings.  It was a challenge.  We wrapped the
paintings in bubble wrap, then upon realizing they wouldn't fit in the
boxes, unwrapped them.  We cleared the table, flipping the paintings
over the top and shoving the box from the other end like a sheath.
Marissa repaired the box, which had ripped at the edges from the
friction, and meanwhile I stole away to move a filing cabinet into the
basement.  Finally, we turned the boxes on each corner, wrapping the
outsides with seran wrap and cushioning the corners before finally
bundling them all together as a towering mass of cardboard and
plastic - the very same towering mass that looms over our dining room
computer while I write this morning.  I opened a beer, and we
retreated upstairs, collapsing in our bedroom chairs.

We congratulated ourselves for the massive effort, then planned out
the rest of the week before watching a movie on the couch.  I broke
out some chips and salsa, and Marissa stuck to the usual pregnancy
craving inspired evening snack.

This morning, I'm hanging around the house so we can together lift the
massive beast in the truck, which will carry the paintings to their
new home in New York.  The paintings are quite beautiful.  I did my
best yesterday to find time between the shlepping, photos, taping,
hoisting, and lifting to just stop and look at them.  Once the
paintings are in the truck, we're going to celebrate with a pizza
lunch.  I think I might even get a beer.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.

*** 2020-02-11 Tuesday de-scaling, shipping, eating out, and haircuts

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  I hope you're feeling energy
this morning, staying warm, and staying focused on your goals.  I also
hope you, like me, have a nice warm cup of coffee to help you keep
things under control.  Our coffee is hitting me just right this
morning.  A few days ago I finally got my act together and cleaned our
coffee maker, using a special packet of /descaling agent/ and general
cleaning solution that arrived in the mail in tiny white boxes.  "That
looks like birth control," said Marissa, seeing me rip open the tiny
white boxes.  She's right - one box even had a strip of pink on the
label, and the other blue.

Now descaled (and added to the monthly chore rotation), it practically
tastes brand new.  "I gotta hand it to you," I told Marissa.  "I think
you are just more sensitive to bad coffee.  I must have a higher
tolerance for drinking the terrible stuff."  And it's true - if not
for her complaining, I would have probably put it off for another
month, letting our coffee maker get more... /scaley/?  In the same
spirit of things, I'm trying to stay on top of our water quality.  So
once a month henceforth, not only will I break out the coffee machine
birth control, but I will also lug a heavy bag of water softener salt
down the stairs and dump it into the plastic tank.

Yesterday was a good day.  I worked from home in the morning,
expecting to help Marissa get the paintings into the freight truck
sometime in the morning.  But as these things usually work, morning
passed, lunch passed, and the truck wouldn't actually arrive until the
late afternoon.  But I still appreciated the slow start to the week,
attending some meetings upstairs from our bedroom and hacking on some
code in the living room while Rodney played.  For lunch, I scarfed
down some goulash leftovers standing in the kitchen, eating them right
out of microwaved tupperware.

This week at work, I'm kicking off a new project with our tech lead,
researching some options for putting our team to work in the realm of
client side secret management.  We're also getting ready for some
visiting higher ups who will want to sit down with our team and hear
about what we're working on.

Around 4, Marissa got a call from UPS saying that the driver would be
there within the half hour.  I shut my laptop and helped her hoist the
heavy box out to the driveway.  We stood it up on its side and
patiently waiting.  Twenty minutes later, she got another call from
UPS.  I could tell from her end of the phone call that they were
trying to negotiate postponing the pick-up.  "I'm sorry, but I need it
out today.  I feel like I was pretty generous and flexible, we hung
around the house all day and I need this thing to head out," she said
sternly.  More chatter proceeded.  "Is there anything I could have
done to make this go more smoothly," she added.

Marissa hung up the phone.  "They wanted to push it a day, I said no,
and then suddenly two drivers were available to do it," she said
rolling her eyes.  Her phone rang again, and after a brief
conversation, she hung up and reported, "he's on the beltline, he'll
be here in twenty minutes."  I trotted into the house to get the
football.  With Rodney upstairs sleeping and the dogs waiting
patiently in their crates, we had a rare opportunity to play a true
game of outside catch, undisturbed.  Marissa and I laughed as we both
tried to adjust to the cold and longer throwing range.  "Our living
room must be pretty small, it's making me look bad," I laughed,
lobbing the ball sloppily toward her feet.  Marissa threw it back - a
better throw than mine, but skewed slightly toward the grass.  I made
a over enthusiastic diving catching, landing in the neighbor's front
lawn and rolling into a snowbank.

The UPS truck arrived, and we hoisted the paintings into the truck.
Marissa recognized the driver from last time she had to ship a big
painting.  "We're much more prepared this time," she said proudly
patting the box.  After a few last throws of the football, we
retreated back inside.  Our house felt - and our week - felt lighter
without the giant box looming over our living room.  "I feel like I
can finally close my eyes and rest," said Marissa climbing underneath
a blanket on the couch.  We rested, letting the TV play quietly in the
living room as the sun went down.  Marissa dozed off, and I hacked on
some 'fun' code on my laptop.  Soon, Rodney joined us in the living
room, contentedly playing with some toy airplanes on the couch between
us.

"Time to go out to eat?" I said.  The family stirred, and after
putting the dogs upstairs and getting bundled up, we jumped in the car
bound for Glass Nickel, which has been making a comeback lately in the
lazy eat out portion of our week.  We found a comfortable booth.
Marissa and I sat at the end, and Rodney scooted all the way down
towards the wall at the other end of the booth.  Marissa and I smiled,
amused at his sudden demand for ample personal space.  Rodney busily
played with his toy planes and drew on his magnet pad, trying to
forget that we were watching him.

Rodney continued drawing on his magnet pad.  "Do we have to teach him
letters?" said Marissa breaking the silence.  I furrowed my brow and
shook my head.  "Nah, that's a school thing.  Plus I bet he already
knows him."  Marissa turned toward Rodney.  "Hey Rod," she said.
Rodney paused and looked up, taking a sip of milk.  "Can you draw an
/O/?"

"Coming right up," muttered Rodney picking up his pen.  He drew a
large, deliberate circle and proudly held up his magnet pad.  "Now
draw an E," I said.  Rodney drew a capital /E/, filling up the whole
pad.

We finished dinner, drove home, and put Rodney to bed.  Marissa gave
me a haircut in the bathroom.  "I'm sorry it's been so long since we
got around to this," said Marissa as tuffs of scruff fell rolled off
my shirt onto the bathroom floor.  "Hey, I wasn't asking for one
either, that's on me too," I replied.  Staring blankly at the mirror
while Marissa cut my hair kind of reminded me of that one Beyonce
album cover where she's cutting Jay Z's hair in the bathroom - only a
much less cool version of the scene.  Don't get me wrong - I have my
own brand of self-esteem, but I'm not Jay-Z.

I wrapped up a few chores, and we ended the night with a quick YouTube
binge and a movie while I enjoyed a beer on the couch.  It was a good
day.

Here's to Tuesday.  Hope you have a great day today, and thanks for
reading.

*** 2020-02-12 Wednesday mac 'n cheese, trick shots, and indian food

Dear Journal,

Well, good morning everyone!  Hope you're all feeling good today.  I
find it hard to believe it's only Wednesday.  I feel like I've already
put in a week's worth of work, and I'm craving a weekend right about
now.  I'm fantasizing about the next time I can fall asleep on the
couch, or at the very least hide under a blanket and watch TV, but I
think I still have enough resolve to soldier on.  I'm feeling grateful
that this will be one of those weeks that peaks with Thursday night's
kids code, followed by a well-earned lazy night where I do all of the
above.

Yesterday was a quiet day.  I spent most of the day writing code and
listening to Kesha's new album.  For lunch, I snuck out to Starbucks
and sat at the table attached to the bar, gobbling down a chicken and
bacon panini and washing it down with an iced tea.  My phone buzzed.
"Rodney is the happiest he has ever been right now," Marissa said in a
slack message.  A photo appeared, loading on the screen, showing
Rodney flashing a grin and a thumbs-up siting at the table in front of
a hot bowl of Paw Patrol Mac n Cheese - a new obsession that has
overtaken his pallet.  It's pretty remarkable how quickly a kid can
get hooked on mac 'n cheese.  I bought those boxes with Rodney the day
before.  He approached the mac 'n cheese wall ceremoniously, and stood
for a minute deliberating between the Chase box and the Marshall box.
When we got home, as I was cooking dinner, he ran up to me and
pleaded, "Dada, um... one box of pAH-trol mac-cheese.  Please please
please?"  I laughed.  "Mac 'n cheese isn't a snack, dude.  It's a
meal."

I too was feeling happy, hiding at the end of the Starbucks bar
polishing off a bag of chips.  Maybe not as happy as Rodney, but it
was my own much needed solace before returning back to work.

The rest of the day was pretty kicked back as well.  I had a
one-on-one with my manager.  We bundled up and went for a walk around
the square, completing two laps while we chatted about our team and
our work.  Before heading inside, we stopped by Walgreen's to pick up
some gum for our team's communal gum & mint stash.

Taking the bus home and entering the house, I got to rinsing two cups
of rice before greeting Marissa, who was coming out of an afternoon
nap on the couch.  "Rodney is pretty tired, but I think he'll feel
like going out," she said before I quietly traversed the stairs to his
bedroom.  Rodney's head shot up in bed.  "Hello Dada!" he said from
underneath his covers.

Together we drove to Hy-Vee, Rodney filling the car with stories about
his day.  For making some poop progress, he earned a spiky, light up
bouncy ball.  He was also still reeling from his Mac 'n Cheese lunch.
"You should have seen him in the kitchen," recounted Marissa later.
"He was standing on a chair stirring in the butter into the noodles,
and he was humming the Paw Patrol theme song to himself."

We shopped around Hy-Vee, picking up chicken thighs, tomatoes,
garlic, ginger, and a pack of pita bread.  I planned on making chicken
tikka masala, and anticipated the last few ingredients turning into a
bit of a treasure hunt.  Rodney and I perused the organic aisle.  A
Hy-Vee employee turned to us, asking "Can I help you find anything?"

"Actually yeah," I said.  "Two things - coconut milk and ghee."  The
employee took on a panicked look, darting into the back aisle toward
the milk while Rodney and I followed.  She directed us to a carton of
coconut milk - technically correct, but I was looking for a small
can.  I'm not sure what I would do with an entire carton.

"Perfect," I said.  "Now what was that last thing?" she asked.

"Um... /ghee/?  Clarified butter," I hesitated.

"What's that?" she questioned.  I nervously shifted on the balls of my
feet.  "You know what," I added.  "I'm going to skip it."  The
employee looked at me in horror.  "Are you sure?" she questioned.

"Yeah totally," I assured her.  "You can make it at home, it's just an
extra step."  From the corner of my eye, I saw another shopper wheel
her cart closer, poised to interject.  "It's also known as ghee!" she
interrupted.  "It's shelf stable.  I bet it's by the Indian food."

"Thanks, I can go without it," I said, now addressing what felt like a
gaggle of unwelcome influences in me and Rodney's shopping trip.
"It's OK, I have a back-up plan.  I'm calling off the search."  And
it's a good think I did.  On the way to the checkout aisle, Hy-Vee did
indeed carry ghee on the shelf - a whopping ten dollars for a jar the
size of, well, the can of coconut milk I was hoping to buy before I
settled on the family sized carton.  "No way dude," I said to Rodney
following close behind me.  "Let's just melt some stinking butter
instead."

Back at home, I set Rodney up at the table with a snack and got to
cooking.  I tossed the chicken in spices, then melted some butter in
the bottom of my dutch oven and skimmed the fat onto a paper towel.  I
seared the chicken slices in the thighs.  They turned crispy,
releasing a fragrant bouquet of smells into the air.  I moved the
chicken aside, adding onions, garlic, ginger, and tomatoes, then
simmered it gently with chicken stock and coconut milk.  Everything
turned out great - except of course for the rice.  As is tradition in
my kitchen, putting way too much focus on the meal, I botched the
rice.  "So I know the rice is bad," I said, offering a taste to
Marissa in the living room.  "But I just need a second opinion to
confirm that it is edible."  With a mouthful of slimy, undercooked
white rice, Marissa gave a thumbs up before trotting up the stairs.
At least we had plenty of warm pita bread to make up for it.

We sat at the table for a while, digesting our food and watching
Rodney's antics, before cleaning up and watching a few trick shot
YouTube videos on the couch.  Marissa joined us, then, initiation
clean-up time, I switch to some loud music.  We all got up off the
couch and started to pick up toys.  Rodney was flipping his toy cars
behind his head, aiming to get them in the box in his play corner -
his own brand of clean-up themed /trick shots/.  "Let's GOOOOOOO" he
exclaimed, running in circles after each small success.

We put him to bed, and after knocking out Dutch and exercise, I did my
best to overcome Indian food induced sleepiness while cleaning up the
kitchen.  "These spices are brutal," I said to Marissa while clearing
the stove top.  "I just want to sleep right now."

"Remember we used to eat at that Indian restaurant on Sundays and just
nap the whole day?" added Marissa.

"Yeah," I replied.  "We would all wake up at like 7 PM, and not know
what to do with ourselves."

I rinsed my Dutch oven in the sink, forming a pool of shimmering
orange liquid around the train.  I was so captivated by the color of
the tumeric reflecting off our white cast iron sink beneath the bright
kitchen light that I stopped to take a picture.  It's a shame these
spices make you so sleepy, because they look absolutely fantastic and
they smell amazing.

I fixed myself a coconut milk and tequila smoothie, then joined
Marissa at the project board for a quick sync up.  The plan is to
finish our tasks by Friday, then we'll take the whole weekend to paint
the basement.  And we're doing great - right on track to hit our goal
for this week.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-02-13 Thursday midwestern manners, potato hype, and pictures of my sink

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope you're staying warm on this
uncharacteristically cold February morning, and that you have a warm
cup of coffee on hand.  I'm feeling pretty good today.  I'm grateful
to be here, and I'm grateful that we've almost made it through the
week.

Yesterday was a busy one - a very social day.  At work, I just joined
a new Engineering on-boarding team.  Once this thing gets going, every
month we'll meet with a batch of new engineering hires in Madison,
present some introductory material, answer questions, and hang out
with them.  Yesterday, we met our team and spent some time going over
the prepared curriculum.  Alex, Julia, and I are tasked with talking
about infrastructure and tooling used at Zendesk.  Apparently, at some
point in the week we were supposed to read over our slides in
preparation of a dry run, which all three of us forgot to do, but I
think he held it down pretty well for a first run through.

For lunch, I walked just off the square with my team to pick up a
sandwhich at Cosetta.  I treated myself to a provalone and proscuitto
sandwhich on foccacia.  While waiting in line, Fong offered me some of
her chocolate chip cookie.  "Nah, I'm good.  Enjoy your cookie," I
said waving her off.  Fong looked at me, puzzled.  "Are you sure?  It
seems like you want a bite."

"Alright, I'll have some," I said, breaking off some of the cookie.
"Thanks."  Overhearing the exchange, my manager chimed in.  "You see,
Fong, for some reason in the Midwest, you have to offer something to
somebody twice before they feel comfortable taking you up on it."  I
laughed at the poignant observation.  "I /do/ that all the time," I
laughed.  "Also, when somebody bumps into you, as a midwesterner it's
your duty to say these exact words: /OPE - sorry lemme squeeze right/
/by ya/."

I hacked on some code, then jumped on the bus home.  Marissa was in
the dining room pouring over tax documents.  She had met with a tax
consultant that day, bringing Rodney along for the errand.  "It's been
a tough day," she said resting her head on her hand at the table.

"Why don't we all go to Hy-Vee?  I think we could use a family grocery
trip," I suggested.  We climbed the stairs and woke Rodney up, who
sleepily sat up in bed.  We jumped in the car, and after making our
way through the slushy parking lot, spent some time leisurely picking
up potatoes, green onions, bacon, and other groceries we needed.

Back at home, I got to making dinner.  I settled on green onion,
bacon, and kale hash.  "I'm betting that I can make crispy potatoes in
my Dutch oven," I told Marissa in the car earlier.  "They stick to
cast iron, and my nonstick pan isn't big enough.  I think the Dutch
oven will work."

The Dutch oven did not work.  As with my other attempts, the tiny
cubed potatoes sizzling in bacon fat adhered to the bottom of the pan.
As I tossed and turned them, the layer of golden, crispy potato
thickened, coating the bottom.  I hissed in frustration, trying to
salvage the hash by loosening it up with some chicken broth.  "Sorry
about dinner," I said defeated, serving a bowl of goopy hash with a
fried egg.  "My Dutch oven theory was debunked.  We currently don't
have a pan that can do crispy breakfast potatoes.  I need to step up
my crispy potato game."

We ate dinner.  Marissa sliced some pineapples and strawberries.  We
sat around the table talking.  "I'm trying to figure out where we want
to put things in Miles' room," continued Marissa.  "It has that
sloping ceiling, and I don't want you to bump your head on it while
changing him."

"That's easy, I just won't change him," I teased.  She went out,
drawing out the room in her head and vocalizing the options for where
to put the changer and crib.  "And I don't want to put the crib by the
window..." she said, her voice trailing off.

"Why?  Snipers?"  I interrupted.  Marissa chortled.  Catching her in a
laugh with her mouth full, I continued.  "Birds of prey?"  She laughed
a little harder.  "Ah I got it - you're afraid of laser pointers."
Marissa hit her fist on the table, chuckling.

We wrapped up dinner and transitioned into clean-up time.  I pumped up
some DC Talk in the speakers while we put Rodney's toys away.  Marissa
put Rodney to bed, and I crashed their story time just in time for
Rodney to read his own version of /The Paw Patrol Helps a Space Alien/
to us.  Then Rodney joined me for evening push-ups and sit-ups.  He
laid on the floor next to me, wiggling his head up and down and
flopping around the floor.

Rodney went to bed, and Marissa and I went outside to look at the
snow.  I picked up a snowball, heaving it as hard as I could towards
East Wash.  I slipped and fell on my ass.  Marissa laughed.  We went
inside to get started on chores.

I caught up on kitchen chores, cleaning out the fridge, doing the
dishes, and wiping down the stove.  I had one more leftover potato
from dinner, and as the dogs were standing around in the kitchen, I
decided to have some fun with them.  I held out the raw russet potato,
holding my breath and staring at it with anticipation.  The dogs
picked up on the excitement and started to circle.
"Puppies... do... you... want... a... POTATO?"  I said, running
backwards into the dining room and letting them follow.  The dogs
started to excitedly jump.

"Dogs are kinda stupid, huh?" I laughed.  The potato hype experiment
worked all to well.  After rolling it on the ground, Ziggy scooped it
up in her mouth and ran it over to her bed to jealously nibble on her
prize.  "Honey, she can't eat a potato.  Take that away from her,"
said Marissa.

"Ah, just let her have a victory for a few minutes," I laughed.  Ziggy
was busily chewing on the skin.  "Actually she's kind of waling on
that thing now, I better take it away."  Ziggy angrily followed me
into the kitchen as I dropped the gnawed spud into the garbage.  As a
consolation, I threw a fist full of goldfish crackers onto the ground.

We worked the rest of the night.  After chores, I helped Marissa carry
the old faux wood panels that were in the art studio outside and into
the car for disposal.  We reconvened in the kitchen to make a snack.
Marissa was melting some chocolate for strawberries.  Afterwards, I
rinsed the bowl of chocolate in the sink.  "Here, why don't you take a
picture of our sink," she teased, gesturing at the pooling brown
water.  I heartily laughed.  "Yeah, the picture didn't do it justice,"
I replied.  "I got a few comments from people saying it looked gross,
and I'd have to agree."

I think I have a special connection with our kitchen sink, since I do
a lot of thinking while washing dishes.  I've come to associate the
white cast iron, the hot water, and bright kitchen light with alone
time, and that's difficult to capture in a picture.  

"You could just take a picture of the sink every day," laughed
Marissa.

"Oh could you imagine?" I replied.  "/Dear Journal/," I said mimicking
an entry.  "/I think I'm just going to turn this journal into a photo/
/blog, and I'm only taking photos of my sink from now on.  Here's a/
/pic from last night - we made mac 'n cheese./"

Hope you have a great Thursday today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-02-14 Friday subway stories, omelets, and the valentine's game contest

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  I played a
dangerous game waking up this morning, snoozing my alarm and taking an
extra ten minutes to snuggle with the dogs in bed.  Maybe it's the
long week, or maybe it's the subzero temperatures this morning, but
whatever it was, it kept me in bed a little longer than usual, and I
was feeling pinched for time in the rest of my morning routine.  But
from experience, I've found that as long as I start typing by 7:30 AM
sharp, things turn out just fine.  I'm showered, dressed, packed, and
I have a fresh cup of Collectivo House Blend rolling around in my
empty stomach with a tall glass of water.

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  I had a productive morning, hacking on
some code and wrapping up my project for the week.  It felt great to
send a final, polished patch over to the Interface team.  I take great
pride in being thorough with new code, especially when working with
another team's code base.  I made sure to update the related
documentation, integrate the new system into their existing build
tools, and left good instructions for how to use the new tools I
added.  These days, our team is working a lot in the realm of typed
configuration languages, which for as boring as it sounds, it has
really captured my imagination and re-invigorated my interest in my
work.  In short, good things are happening in Zendesk tech, and I'm
grateful to be a part of it.

For lunch, I snuck away to Subway across the street and waited in line
for a sandwich, then walked back to our building with my spicy Italian
in hand.  "Hey did you all check out that new sandwich place /Subway/
right by us?  That place was packed, I think they're going to do
really well here," I joked while returning to my desk.  A few people
on my team rolled their eyes.  The Subway, of course, has been on the
square for a really long time.

A teammate of mine, Alex, used to work at Subway, and whenever I bring
back a sandwich, he usually has a good subway story to offer.  "One
time this really nice old guy came in, and it was clear he had never
ordered Subway, but he was being really friendly about it.  'OK, what
is all this?  How do I order Subway'," Alex shared.  "But it was a
terrible day, and I wasn't having it, and I snapped at him and went
off about how I didn't have time to just give him the complete Subway
training he needed and that he should just read the menu.  My manager
was really upset with me the next day, and I got written up."

We laughed, then I submitted my own Subway story to the group.  "I had
bad Subway ordering anxiety, but I used to order from them every day
when I was home from college in the summer.  Every now and then, on my
way out, my family would ask me to pick up sandwiches for them also,
but instead of going to one Subway, I would go to a different Subway
for each sandwich, since I didn't want to hold up the line.  I wasn't
convinced I could handle simultaneously answering questions about
toppings for each sandwich."  My team shook their had and laughed.
Admittedly, the story was a bit of an embellishment, in that I only
actually did this once, and it only involved two Subways.  As there
was a Subway on pretty much every block where I lived, it didn't even
take a lot of extra time.

I met with our tech lead in the afternoon to plan work for our team in
the coming weeks, then went outside to catch the bus home.  Marissa
was napping on the couch, and I joined her on the chair.  "I set my
alarm, feel free to fall asleep," said Marissa beneath a pile of
blankets and dogs.  I shut my eyes and nodded off for fifteen minutes,
awoken by Rodney coming down the stairs.

Marissa made me an omelet with bacon, mushrooms, and peppers.  On the
way out the door, I chased it down with a cinnamon roll.  No matter
how long I spend in the kitchen, I think she will always be the
reigning champ of making omelets - it's truly an experience.

I joined four other volunteers in the library setting up for Kids
Code, and kids started to trickle in and work on laptops.  Earlier in
the day, I had bought a king sized chocolate Hershey bar, planning on
holding a contest for the best Valentine's day themed game of the
evening.  The promise of a giant chocolate bar for the best game
created a palpable buzz and excitement in the room that caused people
to busily and quietly work.

Freddie re-drew the sprites of an old shooting platformer he had on
hand.  You were a bright red heart defending yourself against dark
hearts that would swarm you in a fighting circle.  Some swung chains,
and others could move quickly like ninja's.  "What's this game
called?" I asked, waiting to write it on the whiteboard.  Freddie
paused his game and read the filename he had typed, laughing at his
typo.  "I guess it's called /valentins/," he said.

Mo and Kyle presented a hilarious demo of a tiny naked cupid flying
around, shooting hearts that flew out of a giant cartoonish mouth.
Along with a silly theme, they came up with a very fluid arrow aiming
mechanic that was pleasant on the eyes and made for a fun
demonstration.

Owen showed off a surrealist take on the theme with a Scratch game
called /Untitled/.  "He calls all of his games /Untitled/," explained
Chord as Owen trudged up to the podium and plugged in his laptop.  At
first, /Untitled/ appeared thrown together and sloppily sketched by
hand, but as he controlled a heart bouncing around the screen, the
game started to show its depth.  "I just use the default scratch color
for everything, I like it."  Pale grey hearts blinked in the
background, bringing depth to the frame.  As he bounced around
collecting hearts, the music, randomly generated from stock Scratch
assets, grew into a cadent, steady cacophony of drums, cymbals, and
cat meows.  Freddie came forward to try the game.  "It's hard to
control," said Freddie.

"I made it nearly impossible to control," said Owen.  "Every two
seconds, the axes on the player are inverted."

"Owen, I think you may have an interest in surreal gaming, and it's
definitely an interesting genre," I added from the back of the room.
"Some game developers would argue that a game doesn't actually need to
be playable to convey it's message."

Lastly, Eli showed off a game called /Defeat the Ugly/, in which your
character would fire hearts at menacing, swarming squares.  "You lose
love if you shoot a heart and you miss," Eli explained.

"There might be a lesson in there," I said.  "Sometimes when you love
people, they don't offer you the same love you."  I was going for
humor, but it led to a surprisingly poignant discussion.

The kids voted for Freddie's re-skinned zombie game.  Despite the new
concept games in the running, at the end of the day, I suppose
everyone just wants to play a zombie game.

Hope you have a wonderful day today, and thanks for reading.  Happy
Friday, and happy Valentine's day!

*** 2020-02-15 Saturday pinkeye, back-up plans, and white rice

Dear Journal,

Hello, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  I hope you're taking things slow
today, and finding plenty of time to lazily soak up a morning while
staying warm inside.  Currently, we're about as relaxed as you can be.
I woke up around ten, hearing Rodney call out in the hallway.
/Helloooo?  Anyone there?/.  The two of us, followed by the dogs, made
our way downstairs.  I set Rodney up by his chalkboard with a cold cup
of apple juice, brewed some coffee, and prepared a Dutch baby in the
kitchen while putting things away.  Later joined by Marissa, we
enjoyed a late breakfast with some cut up fruit.  Currently, Marissa
is painting in her studio, Rodney is playing with playdough in the
living room, and I'm upstairs writing with a cup of coffee.

Yesterday was a great day as well.  I worked through the morning, and
for lunch we went out to eat with the Security team, sitting at a long
table in the back of Tavernakaya.  Seated across the table from me was
Forest, a new hire and recent transplant from the bay area.  I had a
great time getting to know Forest.  He's a recent football fan, has
plenty of hobbies and opinions, and he likes spicy food.  Talk about
kindred spirits, right?

I worked through the afternoon before jumping on a bus.  At home, the
house was empty.  I even trudged up the stairs into our bedroom
talking to the dogs, only to find that they were missing as well.
After cluelessly spinning in our bedroom like Jon Travolta in /Pulp
Fiction/, I remembered that the dogs had a vet appointment.  I decided
to make the most of the alone time and crash on the couch, enjoying
some YouTube.  Extended the length of the couch polishing off a
handful of cheese curds, I enjoyed a compilation video of the 100 best
catches of the 2019 NFL season, which had a decent Bears
representation.  It's no surprise - we had a pass heavy offense this
past season, and between Robinson and Gabriel, there were lots of
great snags in the backfield to choose from.

Marissa and the rest of the family pulled up in the driveway.  The
door cracked open, and the dogs ran into the living room followed by
Rodney.  "Ziggy has pinkeye," announced Marissa.

"Oh no, is it contagious?" I asked.

"Actually the vet, didn't give me a straight answer.  I asked if it
was contagious, and she was like, 'you'd have to really /get in there/
to catch it from her'," she said.  We grimaced at the same time.

"Does the vet know how much... physical contact we share with her?
She should have probably gone into the specifics," I laughed.

"Yeah," Marissa said, nodding.  This morning I woke up with her face
literally pressed against my face.  I think our eyeballs were even
touching."

We crashed on the couch as a family for a bit, then finally packed the
dogs up and jumped in the car, headed for the bowling alley.  The
bowling alley was packed.  "You probably wouldn't be able to get a
lane until like 8:30," said the young kid behind the counter,
shrugging.  A bit disappointed, we jumped back in the car to discuss a
back-up plan.

"I'm trying to figure out why I'm so frustrated," I said as we made
are way over to the Ale Asylum to play pinball.  "I think it's because
I've never been turned away from a bowling alley.  Who expects a
bowling alley to be busy?"

"That's true," said Marissa.  "I mean it's Valentine's day.  Why is
everyone out bowling?"

"Excactly!  On Valentine's day, no less.  What is everyone doing
bowling?" I replied.  "It's like if you went into a 7/11 to grab a
slushy, and there was a line out the door and you had to go somewhere
else."  Ironically, Rodney was probably handling the change of plans
best.  After we explained to him that bowling was going to pan out, he
jumped into his car seat and nodded off.

We found a table in the back of the Ale Asylum and ordered food.  We
chatted while sipping on beer, diet coke, and lemonade.  Rodney
started to get bored, waiting patiently in his chair.  "Want to play
with my phone, dude?" said Marissa, opening the Solitaire app and
sliding it over to him.  Rodney eagerly started to poke and jab the
screen.

"He's a nice boy," I said, watching him patiently occupy himself.  "I
think he's almost ready to have a gameboy - that might be a fun new
toy to get when he gets a new brother.  He's a nice boy, and he
deserves something fun and special to bring along on outings."
Although I never had a gameboy, I have lots of fond memories of
escaping into the basement after a busy day of school and mentally
recharging with some video games.  "He likes to sit and focus on
things," I added.  "I think he would really take to video games."

We ate our food, then ordered desert - a chocolate covered Belgian
waffle with a chaser of porter.  I sipped the beer while the plate
practically disappeared before my eyes.  By the time the waitress
returned, all that remained on the plate was a chocolate smudge and a
single raspberry.  Rodney and I left the table to go make change,
meeting Marissa by the pinball machines for a quick game before
returning home and putting Rodney to bed.

Marissa spent the rest of the evening painting upstairs while I put
things away in the kitchen and cleaned the fridge.  We had a tube of
pineapple that just barely didn't fit in a smaller tupperware
container.  I sliced off a chunk and diced it, throwing the pieces
into a bowl.  Soon, a bag of chopped kale and some spare klemintines
joined the fruit, as I began mixing an impromptu fruit & kale salad,
adding sunflower seeds and the last of a bottle of balsamic dressing.
As a finishing touch, I fried a piece of stale pita bread in butter
and olive oil and cut it into a heart.  "It's a Valentine's day
salad," I said, handing the bowl to Marissa in her studio.

"Did this all start with you trying to move the pineapple to a smaller
container?" she laughed.

"Yeah, that's pretty much it," I laughed.  She knows me well.  In
between assembling the kale salad, I also made a batch of white rice.
After ten minutes of simmering the carefully measured ratio of rice
and lightly salted water, a wave of panic washed over me.  Lifting the
lid, I could see there was still about an inch of water in the pan,
and tasting the rice, it was crunchy and far from finished.

/I'm just going to have to wing it,/ I thought to myself, shutting off
the oven timer and cranking the heat.  I let the rice boil for ten
more minutes, occasionally lifting the lid to sample it on a fork.
"That's just you cooking," I said aloud to myself, repeating a
recurring catch phrase of Chef John.

When the rice was tender, I swiftly dumped it onto a silpat and
fluffed it with a fork, releasing plumes of steam into the air.  I
added a splash of mirin, tossing and fluffing the rice.  The rice was
sticky, but fluffy, flavorful, and still held together.  Despite the
exact timing going off the rails, this batch was a success.  Chef John
is right.  Sometimes you have to abandon prescriptive instructions and
just go by taste, sound, and the way things look.  /That's just you
cooking/.

Hope you have a wonderful Saturday today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-02-16 Sunday coffee in church, groceries, and nasi goreng

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you are feeling relaxed and refreshed
today.  This morning, Rodney and I woke up around 9:30.  I changed him
into a nice pair of dress pants and a spider-man t-shirt and set him
up on the couch to nibble on some cereal while watching water slide
videos.  Meanwhile, in the kitchen, I picked through our packed
dishwasher for the coffee machine funnel and spout and brewed a full
pot of coffee, filling our thermoses for church.

Lately, one of my favorite things about our church is that they let
you bring coffee into the service.  This was quite a shock to me.  As
someone who even had hesitations about taking a sealed coffee traveler
into a church sanctuary, you can imagine the culture shock seeing
people sipping from open mugs and even Starbucks cups.  Now I'm used
to drinking coffee in church, and I've even come to expect it and look
forward to it.  And why shouldn't we be able to drink coffee in
church?  People are more alert, relaxed, and comfortable when they can
drink coffee.  I'm telling you - once you start drinking coffee in
church, there's no looking back.

/Sip/.  Yesterday was a wonderful day.  After publishing a journal
entry, Marissa, Rodney, and I hung around the house through the
afternoon.  Marissa worked busily on the resin tent in the basement,
taking a break to make us some omelets for a light afternoon lunch.
After a quick lunch, Rodney and I left for the grocery store to pick
up dinner.

We had a nice grocery trip, but Hy-Vee gets pretty busy on the
weekends.  Even Rodney, who normally likes to walk alongside me and
wave to people, chose to just stay in the cart and eat a banana.  We
navigated the crowded aisles, picking up vegetables, chicken thighs,
and other things we needed for dinner.  Lastly, Rodney grabbed a
chocolate egg from the candy basket.

Back at home, once Rodney was done eating his chocolate egg, I let him
pick out a few toys and put him in his room for "quiet time" - which
is our working term for re-branded nap time.  As a parent, I'm already
kind of sad to bid farewell to the long daily naps where I'd have two
hours to myself.  I especially miss the morning naps Rodney used to
take after breakfast when he was still a baby.  He's all grown up now,
and instead of a nap in the afternoon, now he just hangs out in his
room with a few toys with the blinds closed.  He still falls asleep,
however.  Usually when we have to wake him up from afternoon quiet
time, he's sitting on the floor with his head flopped down on his bed
underneath the blanket.

Back in the kitchen, I began to prep for dinner.  I was turning the
leftover white rice in the fridge into fried rice - /nasi goreng/ to
be specific.  I opened a beer, put on some music, and got to slicing
up cabbage, bell peppers, carrots, and chicken thighs.  I crushed some
garlic and diced some ginger.  I had all the ingredients line up on
the counter, in order.  

"I'm about to start the fried rice," I told Marissa, coming down the
stairs to check on her.  She was still busy wiring up the resin tent.
"It could go fast, and it will probably be a huge mess, so just be
ready to eat soon, I have no idea when it will be ready."

I was pretty nervous to make fried rice.  It has almost always been a
disaster, and I felt the need to sit for a few minutes in my kitchen
staring at the ingredients and visualizing the recipe from start to
end.  I decided to go with a wok.  I figured whatever pan I would use
would have sticking problems, so it would be better to go with a pan
that's light and easy to toss around.

I dumped in sesame oil, garlic, and ginger.  I added a beaten egg, and
began to wildly toss and turn it with a wooden spoon.  The egg quickly
scrambled.  I added the diced chicken thighs, which immediately turned
ghostly white after hitting the hot oil.  I changed my footing, then
dumped in the rice, continuing to wildly shake and stir the wok.  The
rice clumped at the end of the spoon and began to cake on the bottom
of the wok, but through vigorous stirring and scraping I was able to
keep the rice moving.  I added the sweet soy sauce and a dollop
gochujang, stirring it into the rice before dumping in a handful of
sliced vegetables.  Things were starting to smell good.

By the time I was finished, so much rice and been flung out of the wok
and onto the stove that I needed to make a second batch.  I dumped the
first batch into a platic bowl and quickly scrubbed out the wok in
sink.  The wok hissed when I turned the water on.  After scrubbing out
the burn rice and quickly patting it dry with a towel, I returned the
wok to the stove and added more oil.

The second batch turned out better.  I used much less rice, which
allowed me to better keep things moving around.  When it was finished,
I combined it with the first batch and gave it a final toss.  I
finished the dish by frying two eggs in some leftover clarified
butter, and a third well done egg for Marissa.  I plated the fried
rice, then, completely exhausted from the effort, crumpled into my
seat at the dinner table.  Marissa joined us, grabbing a water bottle
out of the fridge.

"So here's nasi goreng," I said.  "It was awful.  I'm exhausted.  But
I did it."  As we sat at the table eating, the dogs helped themselves
to the globs or rice stuck to the floor and garbage can.  I was
grateful that they were getting a head start on things for me.  "So
I'll probably just be cleaning the kitchen the rest of the night," I
laughed.  I got up and grabbed the wok out of the sink, showing
Marissa the caked and crusted rice stuck to the metal.

After church today, we're running some errands, and we'll go to Bed
Band & Beyond to shop around for a big nonstick pan.  I'd like to make
fried rice again, and I'm hoping that with a big nonstick pan, the
recipe will be a lot easier to make.  I'd love to be able to make
fried rice without throwing half of it around my kitchen and running a
smoking hot wok over to the sink between batches.

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a great day today.  If you
think you can get away with it, take some coffee into church with you.

*** 2020-02-17 Monday morning drama, hangriness, paint, and errands

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Monday to you!  This morning, we're still on
weekend journaling hours as I have the day of for President's day.  I
hope you do as well, and that you're getting the most out of the extra
weekend day.

I woke up with the dogs and Rodney around 9, and they day was already
filled with drama - lemme tell you.  Rodney was complaining about a
cut on his finger.  Yesterday while shopping at Hy-Vee, he
face-planted in the parking lot beside our car.  Baby giraffe went
rolling out of his arms, and he landed square on his chocolate egg,
crumpling the plastic beneath his braced hands.  If I spend too much
time thinking about the face he made seeing that his chocolate egg was
crushed, I might start crying myself, but he earned himself a few
nasty battle scars on his fingers that were sore this morning.

I ushered him out of his room and sat him in the bathroom while I
grabbed a bandaid and a tube of Neosporin.  I dabbed a drop on his
cut, pushed it in a circle, then wrapped it in a bandage.  Rodney was
so fascinated with the procedure that he forgot what was upsetting
him.  With the dogs following closely behind, we changed into some
sweats and made our way into the kitchen.  Rodney and I used the last
two eggs in our fridge to make an omelet, dividing it in half and
plating it up with some Cheerios so he could ease into the morning
with some Bob the Builder.

But the drama wasn't yet finished.  A few minutes into washing dishes
and preparing morning coffee, I heard a shriek from the living room,
finding his plate flipped over on the floor and Ziggy hungrily
gobbling eggs off the floor.  I scolded her and put her in the bedroom
crate.  "Did Ziggy get all your eggs, dude?" I asked.  Rodney nodded
with tears in his eyes.  "Here, lemme get you a bowl of peanut butter
cereal," I said, heading back into the kitchen.  So now with both
punishment and replacement cereal dispensed, we're back to an easy
morning.

/Sip/.  Yesterday was a pretty good day.  We left the house for church
later than usual.  Something about our family timing got goofed, and
we didn't leave the driveway until 11:03.  "What are you talking
about," said Marissa.  "We're not /usually/ late for church."

"Yes we are," I contested.  "We're not usually /this/ late, but we
rarely get their on time."

"We weren't late last week," said Marissa.  "When we got there, we had
to drop Rodney off and use the bathroom, but we were still in the
building before the service started."

"Oh I see," I jeered.  "I think we just have differing terms.  I'd
consider us late if we don't have our butts in a pew by the time the
first song starts."

After church let out, we picked up Rodney from Sunday School.  He was
busily coloring and cleaning the giant chalkboard wall around the
corner from the toys.  Lately, Rodney has become fascinated with
chalkboards - and only half of it actually has to do with the drawing.
At home, he's come up with an elaborate system for wiping the board
clean, stuffing the baby wipe into a plastic cup, then emptying the
plastic cup into the garbage can when it's full.  At church, they had
a wet sponge set aside to clean the board, and Rodney had fully
commandeered it for his amusement.  "Oh that's a smart system, dude,"
said Marissa.  "We should switch to a sponge at home, Miss Maddie
knows her stuff huh?"

Before leaving, we started chatting with the parents of Owen, one of
Rodney's Sunday school cohorts.  We recognized them from stage.
Natalie played the piano and sang in worship, and her husband played
the guitar.  Though this particular Sunday, he opened the offertory
with a cello solo, which was undeniably cool.

We left church, beginning our Sunday afternoon errands, first stopping
at Home Depot.  Even though I agreed to knock out Home Depot before
lunch, my fickle stomach starting to grumble in the parking lot on the
way in.  "I think I underestimated how hungry I was," I said.  "We're
officially in the /danger zone/."  I was, of course, talking about my
own susceptibility to /hangriness/.  When you are so hungry that you
teeter on the edge of a childish outburst in public.  /Hangry/.
"We'll go fast," said Marissa, nodding dutifully.

Soon enough, we were out of Home Depot, and seated at Portillo's
polishing off fries, hot dogs, and splitting a chocolate shake that,
in the lunch rush pandemonium, had accidentally been supersized for
us, free of charge.

"Now we get to go to Bed Bath & Beyond," I smiled.  "It's the fun
errand."  I love Bed Bath & Beyond.  The official plan was to pick up
a new nonstick pan, but secretly Marissa and I had a mutual
understanding that we were about to /make it rain/.  It's almost
impossible for us to go into that store without seeing other things we
like.  Along with the new 14 inch nonstick skillet, our haul included
a stainless steel stock pot, a fish spatula, a step stool for Rodney,
a cushy kitchen dish washing mat, and a spontaneous 'get well soon'
dog toy for Ziggy, at home still in the throws of puppy pinkeye.

Back at home, Marissa donned a white jumpsuit and descended into the
basement to paint the ceiling, leaving me to set up my new kitchen
toys.  After putting everything away, I brewed a pot of coffee and
washed some dishes, enjoying the new supportive dish washing mat.

Later, I got Rodney up from his nap and went to Hy-Vee, leaving
Marissa to continue wrestling with white paint in the basement.  To
kick the tires on our new nonstick pan, I chose to revisit potato and
kale hash.  "If this works out, this will suddenly become a very easy
one pot meal," I bragged while putting the groceries away.  And it was
easy.  The new pan made browning the crispy potatoes so easy, it was
embarrassing.  With one hand, I tossed the potatoes in sizzling bacon
fat, and with the other hand, I played catch with Rodney in the
kitchen until dinner was ready.

After putting Rodney to bed, I joined Marissa in the basement to check
on her work.  She had painted almost the entire exposed ceiling and
walls a pure white.  The basement felt brighter, and paradoxically,
bigger.  "I have the sudden urge to sit down here and play video
games," I laughed.  Marissa waggled her eye brows.  "We should get a
playstation," she added.

Thanks for reading.  Hope you have a great day today.  Happy
President's day - make sure you take it easy today, it's what George
Washington would have wanted.

*** 2020-02-18 Tuesday wallpapers, blacklists, and snowballs through windows

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  I hope that you're feeling
good today and ready to return to work.  I probably relaxed a little
too hard this weekend.  Whether the extra weekend snacking, the
junk food, or the sleeping in is to blame, I'm having a hard time
waking up this morning.  But I'll get there.  The promise of more
coffee keeps me interested in getting out the door and on my way to
work, and in the end, that's all I need as motivation.

Speaking of relaxation, yesterday was a great day.  In the late
morning, Marissa surprised me by taking Rodney to Home Depot - leaving
me to hang out in the dining room and continue working on code.  This
week as my IT task, I'm bolting on a photo manager to our internal
website where you can quickly upload photos to be added into the
random desktop wallpapers and screensavers that appear throughout the
house.  Using random, regularly rotating photos as the computer
wallpaper started out as a small, spontaneous thing that I slapped
together one day on our family computer, but it's turned into a real
source of joy for me, and I'm happy to invest more time into it.  It
also felt great to get a long coding session in.  It felt good to be
alone with my thoughts and clean things up on the homefront.

Marissa and Rodney returned, and while they were out, they picked me
up an iced coffee from mocha.  Rodney sat at the table with his mango
smoothie.  For lunch, I made Marissa and Rodney a double batch of Paw
Patrol Mac n Cheese.  As this is Rodney's favorite meal, there was a
lot of pressure on me to make it right.  I was under strict orders to
skip adding the milk, and not add anything extra like meat or pickles.
In the end, my batch was acceptable, and I showed that I could be
relied upon for a straight up, no frills bowl of Paw Patrol Mac n
Cheese.  I heated up a bowl of ramen and joined them at the table for
lunch.  We toasted our Mocha beverages.

After lunch, I put Rodney down for a nap.  I was tempted to return to
coding, but as the snow was starting to pickup, I thought it was a
good time to do some shoveling.  I cleared the deck, porch, and the
driveway while the puppies frolicked outside.  Despite the
accumulating snow, it was a warmer day.  I barely felt the need to
wear a coat.  The snow was also damp and fluffy, and just about
perfect for making snowballs.  While shoveling, I got distracted by
trying to get a snowball onto East Washington from our back deck.

After the sun went down, Marissa slowly woke up from her nap on the
couch, and I got Rodney out of his room.  The plan was to spend the
evening bowling at our usual place.  While Marissa got put the dogs
away and locked up the house, Rodney and I headed outside to the back
porch to play in the snow.  Rodney ran around the backyard while I
lobbed snowballs at him.  Then he started to point to things he wanted
me to hit.  I threw a snowball at the brick side of our house, his
bedroom window, his swingset, and the back door.

"Dude, let me see if I can hit the garage window from here," I said,
packing another snowball together.  Rodney stood by in anticipation as
I cocked my arm and launched the snowball.  It struck squarely on the
window pane, shattering the glass.  A few shards of glass tumbled to
the ground.  Rodney's mouth dropped.  "/Uh Oh/", he said.  Even though
it would have been fun to build the moment up and see if Rodney would
snitch on me, I instead chose to alleviate his conscience.  "It's OK
dude," I said.  "That window was already broken.  Here - let's get the
pieces so the dogs don't step on 'em."  Marissa came outside as we
were picking up the mess.  No explanation was needed.

We jumped in the car, drove to Dream Lanes, and found our way to an
empty lane.  While renting a lane and ordering food, we had an
important moment of clarity about our usual bowling alley.  "I don't
have any working lanes open," said the guy at the counter.  "The
bumpers don't work, they'll either have to be all up or all down."

"Isn't it weird how we always get stuck with a broken lane?" I asked
Marissa after the guy walked back to the counter.  "It felt like we
walked by several good, empty lanes.  And while we're at it, why does
it always feel like 75% of this place is booked out for leagues every
night?"  We started to notice a pattern.  Casual, non-league bowlers
like us were always assigned lanes 1 through 6.  At the other end of
the alley, was a group of much more serious players.  "They don't even
look like they're having fun," commented Marissa.

Our food arrived.  They got our order wrong, and they brought us the
wrong sized pizza.  Instead of asking them to remake it, I instead
went back to the counter to order a side of pig wings.  "The pig wings
are $10 now," said the kid at the counter.  "That's ridiculous," I
replied.  "Yeah, I know," said the kid at the counter.  "I wish I
could give you a discount, but I can't."

"Dream Lanes is black listed," I announced, returning from food
counter and holding a resolute finger in the air.  /Black listing/ is
a very serious matter for our family.  It happens when enough goes
wrong all at once to make us so angry at a restaurant or establishment
that we can never go back.  By the end of the night, we even had
Rodney yelling /Ya BLACKLISTED/.  So to sum up, the Recker family is
now officially interviewing for a new bowling alley.

Today should be a good day.  This is the final week before we
temporarily move out of our house.  While we're right on track
productivity wise, this is an important week to stay the course.  Our
house will start to feel really empty as we approach Sunday.

Thanks for reading.  Hope you have a wonderful day.

*** 2020-02-19 Wednesday todo lists, banana peels, grilled cheese, and concrete

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for stopping by this Wednesday
morning.  As this February plunges us back into the depths of winter
with harsh winds and freezing temperature, I hope you're still
managing to stay warm.

I'm feeling good today.  This morning I brewed a double batch of
coffee, I skipped showering, and wardrobe wise I'm shooting for
maximum comfort and minimal presentation.  I'm ready to hunker down
and have a productive remote day.

Yesterday was productive as well.  When I get to work in the mornings,
I usually spend the first half hour of my day making a list of things
I'd like to accomplish, but for the first time yesterday I assigned
times to work on things as well.  I planned the whole day out - work,
lunches, breaks, and walks - all the way until quitting time.  Setting
aside time to work on something makes a huge difference, and I
couldn't recommend it more.

I worked on code all morning, then for lunch, walked over to the
novelty cheese shop on the square to pick up a sandwich.  I cut the
big sandwich in half, bagging the other half to take home later, and
plated it up with some pita chips, a fun sized snickers bar, and a
diet coke, taking the plate over to my desk to dine while catching up
on YouTube videos.

After finishing my lunch, I relocated to a chair in the kitchen to
read up on some documentation.  I was supposed to do research on
another team's solution for something my team was building, but I went
down a bit of a rabbit hole skimming through the rest of their
documentation.  It's amazing how differently other teams at the same
company can operate.  Later in the afternoon, my manager pulled up a
chair next to me, spending a coffee break chatting with me about what
I was reading.  "I'm overwhelmed," I said.  "There's a lot more
information here than I thought there would be, just slowly taking it
in, ya know?"  Heath sleepily nodded, taking another sip of coffee
before heading back to his desk.

Later in the afternoon, I got up to take a long walk around the
square.  It was chilly outside.  The wind was picking up, and the
ground was still wet from melting snow, but it felt good to get
outside and stretch my arms and legs.  I walked around the square and
up by the terrace.  I spent a few minutes throwing snowballs off the
balcony, trying to land one in the lake.  It's much further than it
looks.

At quitting time, I wrapped up my TODO list, and concluded the day by
re-watching a recipe video for tomato bisque while making a grocery
list.  I jumped on a bus home, finding Marissa on the couch.  She had
a bad day - some lady at Home Depot made a passing comment that bummed
her out, so I was eager to get Rodney out of the house and give her
some alone time.

From the back seat of our car, Rodney brought me up to speed with his
day - everything he could still remember, coming out of his deep
afternoon nap, anyway.  At Hy-Vee, he helped himself to one of the
free bananas they set out for kids, but after taking three bites, he
decided he didn't want it anymore.  I finished eating it by default as
we picked up canned tomatoes, sourdough bread, and vegetables.

At the checkout aisle, I asked Rodney to take the banana peel to the
garbage.  Rodney dutifully nodded and slipped through the queue of
shoppers to the customer service counter, where there is usually a
little plastic garbage can.  The garbage wasn't there today.  Rodney
stood in a circle and spun, before spotting a garbage further back by
the doors.  He ran over, stuffed the peel in the garbage, then turned
to face the aisles.  Our eyes met, Rodney waved, then he ran back to
meet me.  Waving at me before rejoining me in line was actually his
contribution to this ritual.  Rodney adapts to new responsibilities
well.  Even in something as silly as throwing a banana peel away in
the grocery store, it's fun to stand back and watch him relish in the
independence.

After unloading the groceries at home, I got to cutting vegetables and
simmering the soup base in the kitchen.  Marissa climbed off the couch
and joined me in the kitchen to talk, venting about her frustration
with the day.  As she reflected, I offered her off-cuts of the Irish
cheddar I was grating for the grilled cheese sandwiched we'd eat with
our tomato soup.  She appreciated the listening ear, and I appreciated
the company.

We ate dinner at the table.  The grilled cheese sandwiches, which had
cheese melted on the inside and crisped on the outside, were another
effortless success thanks to my favorite new nonstick pan.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, then go to work in the basement.
Marissa was laying down self-leveling concrete.  We had done two bags
the night before, and being more familiar with the process (and armed
with a mixing drill attachment dug out of Marissa's old resin gear),
were much more efficient.  While Marissa dumped the concrete and
spread it with a squeegee, I'd fetch a bag of concrete from the car
and 5 quarts of water in a bucket.  I'd cut the bag while she mixed
the solution, then we'd repeat.  We dumped six bags of concrete on the
basement floor.  It was gratifying watching the smooth, grey paste
fill in the cracks and scratches of the basement floor.  It moved and
blended like a french paste, or that quick hardening chocolate you
pour over icecream.

Exhausted, and still covered in concrete dust, we sealed off the
basement before heading upstairs to finish chores.  At 11, I grabbed a
beer out of the fridge and Marissa joined me on the couch with the
other half of the sandwich I bought for lunch.  I was feeling sore, in
the good way.  Nothing makes you feel more deserving of a beer than
moving bags of concrete around.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  I'm going to go hang out
downstairs with the Rodman and make a list of what I'd like to
accomplish today.  Thanks for reading, and happy Wednesday.

*** 2020-02-20 Thursday 4 am, trips to the dump, and baked beans

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're feeling good today.  We have a
lot to be thankful for today.  The only thing standing between us and
a well-deserved weekend is just this measly Thursday.  I don't know
about you, but I eat Thursdays for breakfast.

So there's a bit of gritty motivation to get you started.  I slept
pretty well, despite waking up at 4 AM.  I don't know if I woke up
first, or if Rodney woke me up somehow, but we had a funny little
interaction a few hours ago where I sat down in his bed and gave him a
sip of water.  He emptied the plastic cup, and his head hit the pillow
immediately after.  I could have sworn he was already snoring by the
time I cracked his door and said /g'night, dude/.  I too, of course,
fell right back asleep until my usual wake up time.

At the moment, everyone who is supposed to be sleeping is contentedly
sleeping.  I'm seated comfortably at my desk, wearing my favorite
hoodie and a worn pair of blue jeans.  My desktop wallpaper is the
ceiling of an outdoor tent packed with hanging paper Asian lamps - a
picture we took last time we were in Amsterdam.

Yesterday was a pretty good day.  Working from home, I warmed up for
the day with a cup of coffee, setting Rodney up on the couch with a
cereal bar, some juice, and some Paw Patrol re-runs.  I attended our
morning stand-up from the dining room table.  Rodney, curious as to
what I was up to, wandered over and joined me at the table, craning
his neck into my webcam before the meeting ended and we all bid
farewell.  My morning rolled into a second meeting with my tech lead,
where we filled out a google doc's worth of questions dredged from my
research that week.  He demonstrated admirable patience, taking the
time to answer each question in my bullet-pointed list spewed from my
stream of conscious.  It was a great discussion.

By the time Marissa had returned from dog class, I felt like I had
done over an hour of talking.  Marissa needed my help loading garbage
into the car for a trip to the dump, and the physical labor sounded
like a nice change of pace.  "We can drop the stuff off at the dump
before lunch," she explained.  "Nothing feels better than returning
from the dump with an empty car, and that will make lunch so much
better."

We started with the old resin table.  Remember the one caked with old
resin, latex gloves and plastic gloves stuck to the surface like a
post-modern art installation?  Well that post-modern piece has camping
out on our deck, too large to fit into the shed.  We hauled it into
the trunk, followed by bags of garbage, pvc poles, and the remaining
wood from the basement bookshelf that I tore down.  With the car
packed, we made our way behind Hy-Vee and pulled into the dump.
Rodney was on high alert, vigilantly watching out the window, waiting
to point out every police car, bucket truck, and bulldozer that came
into view.  "We found out yesterday that sometimes ambulances, fire
trucks, and police cars fill up on gas here," said Marissa.  "So
really you need to be ready to see /anything/ at the dump."

We parked, got out, and flung each piece of garbage into the
appropriate dumpster.  Last to leave was the resin table.  Marissa
started to flag down an attendee for help, but before she could find
someone, I hoisted the table into the dumpster myself, grunting as the
wood slammed against the metal floor.  "You know how you read about
those mothers that have so much adrenaline, that they can lift a car
by themselves to save their baby or something," I explained as we
pulled out of the dump.  "I think that's what happened to me back
there.  I /hated/ that table so much, I was able to channel that hate
and, in the heat of the moment, pick it up by myself."

We parked the car at glass nickel to head inside for lunch.  "You're
right," I said jumping out of the passenger seat scanning the empty
trunk.  "This is the best feeling in the world.  I'm excited for lunch
now."  Marissa smiled as we headed inside.

We enjoyed a easy, long lunch at Glass Nickel, though we were
dissapointed to hear that our favorite waitress no longer works there.
Rodney still acted like he owned the place, flagging down our waiter
to show him crayon drawings and the toy planes he took with him.  I
enjoyed a beer while we talked about the week.

We returned home, and I worked through the rest of the afternoon while
Rodney and Marissa napped.  At 5, I crept into Rodney's room to wake
him up.  The two of us went to Hy-Vee, and I had only the faintest
idea of what to make for dinner.  My grocery list just said "meat" and
"vegetables".  Together, we ended up picking up some cod, shallots,
brussels sprouts, and a can of baked beans.  "I think tonight we can
make a mignonette sauce," I said to Rod, remembering we had a can of
cream in the fridge.  Back at home, I did my best to wrestle Rodney
away from the counter while I cooked the cream sauce, roasted the
sprouts, and seared the lightly breaded fish.  I had a plate of cold
butter chunks on the counter, and Rodney swiped one of the cubes off
the plate, thinking it was cheese.  I kicked him out of the kitchen
until dinner was ready.

"The baked beans are a bit of a non sequitur," I said plating up the
food at the table.  "But I know I mentioned them this afternoon before
falling asleep, and you were probably excited about them."  I suppose
there's worse things you can pair.  The sweet, sugary baked beans went
pretty well with the tart cream sauce.  And as always, cooking the
fish to a delicious crisp was effortless, thanks to my new battle axe
of the kitchen, my 14 inch non stick skillet.

Marissa put Rodney to bed so I could get a jump on some code.  Last
night, I wrapped up the new wallpaper manager I added to our family
website.  I put on a little demo for Marissa in our room, showing how
you could upload family photos to the site, and how they automatically
get added to the desktop wallpaper rotation.  "Each computer in the
house runs a little script that asks for a random photo from our NAS
and updates the wallpaper every ten minutes," I explained.  With the
extra time after dinner, I also wired up an RSS feed.  "My goal is to
make this website useful for pretty much everything we do."  We spent
the rest of the night working on chores.  Marissa painted the basement
floor, which after our hard work, dried beautifully smooth and level.
We crashed on the couch with snacks and drinks at the ready.  It was a
good night.

Hope you have a happy Thursday, and thanks for reading.

*** 2020-02-21 Friday dreams, boy energy, and free time

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for joining me for this Friday's
journal entry.  Just wanted you to know that this journal entry is
best enjoyed with a hot, fresh cup of coffee, and maybe even a little
breakfast.  I'm feeling good today - happy to be here at the end of
the week.  This morning I woke up at 2 AM again, this time at the
conclusion of a very action packed dream wherein I crashed landed a
prop plane on a frozen lake, then had to set a wooden ship on fire
from the inside and escape the streets of a flooded city.  Sure -
dreams themselves don't matter.  The actual events that unfold in a
dream didn't happen, and truth be told they're probably fabricated
from half formed thoughts in the few seconds it takes you to wake up,
but the feelings were real.  And I gotta say, I felt pretty cool, and
it's a great way to start the day.

Some thrilling action, even in a silly dream, is a welcomed change.
Yesterday, work was slow.  I worked through the morning, then heated
up a bowl of tomato soup and toasted a few pieces of sourdough bread,
eating it at my desk for lunch.  I watched a video of the best /mic'd
up/ moments from the Bears' 2019 season.  "I love you, but I'm
probably not going to watch that," said Marissa after I slacked her
the link.  I don't blame her - it wasn't my best video recommendation
of the day.  "And it was like seven minutes long," she later defended
herself.

I continued working through the afternoon, went for a walk around the
square, then took a little bowl of pistachios up to the ninth floor
and ate them while staring out the window.  It was a cold day
yesterday, and as people were avoiding the outdoors, the capital
square looked serene, and even a little creepy.

At quitting time, I jumped on a bus and headed home.  Rodney greeted
me at the door, already ready to deliver the good news and highlights
of the day.  "Dada, look!  Motorcycle.  /Ahaghghgablahga UNDER THE
COUCH/."  Translated - he had finally found his prized toy motorcycle,
which was misplaced all day yesterday.  It was under the couch.

As Rodney led me by the hand into the living room, Marissa remained on
the couch.  After chatting with everyone, I ushered Rodney upstairs to
grab a new pair of socks.  While in the kitchen getting our coats on,
I noticed a new wall mounted magnetic strip on the wall.  "AH!
AHHHH!" I shrieked.  Rodney looked alarmed.  "It's OK, dada," he said
patting my leg.

"No dude," I chuckled.  "That was a good shriek.  Look!  Did you guys
work on that today?"

"It's a thank you gift for helping with the basement floor," Marissa
explained joining us in the kitchen.  "I figured you'd notice when you
started cooking, or just before you left."

Prior to the new magnetic strip Marissa mounted to the wall, we kept
all of our spatulas, spoons, whisks, and utensils packed in one metal
container on the counter.  It got a little hard to find things in the
container - I practically had to take everything out whenever I wanted
to find something small like a serving fork.  With the metal items now
hung on the wall, the container on the counter was much easier to
search - not to mention the metal spoons and my new fish spatula look
pretty cool mounted on the wall.

"I also did a load of wash for you, and I saw the kitchen mats were on
your chores list, so I washed those," Marissa added.  My mouth hung
open in amazement.  "I can be domestic too sometimes," laughed
Marissa.  I felt grateful.  It didn't feel like I had a busy enough
day to warrant all this new found free time.  After thanking Marissa,
Rodney and I left for the grocery store.

At Hy-Vee, Rodney was a ball of boy energy.  He darted around the
produce, picking up a stalk of rhubarb and swinging it around like a
sword.  He plucked a decorative balloon off of the fruit stand.  As we
navigated the aisles, he stood on the highest lip of the cart,
shouting /YIPEEE.  WAHOO.  HOORAY./ As we waited in line to buy a bus
pass, he busily clambered onto the counter, trying to pull himself up.
"It's been a long winter," I said approaching the front of the line.
"He's got lots of energy these days."

The lady at the counter laughed, then turned to Rodney.  "Hey buddy,"
she said.  "Did you see the security camera?"  She knelt beside him
and pointed up at the monitor, waving at herself from a different
angle. Rodney, suddenly gripped with shyness, followed her gaze and
quietly nodded, squeaking out a "see ya later" before we left for
home.

Back at home, Marissa joined me in the kitchen while I chopped the
vegetables for fried rice.  I was doing an /all green/ thing, picking
up bok choy, green onions, a green bell pepper, and adding in a dab of
green /Los Calientes/ hot sauce.  Not unlike every other meal
featuring my new nonstick pan, it was remarkably simple.  I stood at
the stove, lightly tossing the rice while Marissa continued chatting
about the day.  I added in some seared offcuts of cod from yesterdays
dinner and a fist full of fresh, chopped cilantro.  The meal came out
just a bit spicy, but as we explained to Rodney, /it was the good kind
of spicy/.  After going through two glasses of milk, we let him chase
it down with a bowl of apple sauce and some fruit snacks.

After dinner, I put Rod to bed.  We read a story in the dark, and he
held a flashlight to illuminate the pages of his alphabet book.  I bid
him goodnight, then crashed on the couch with a beer, scooping up
Ziggy into my lap.  It was a great night.

We have a big Friday planned today.  I have a busy morning at work,
with meetings and a demo in the morning, followed by some meetings in
the afternoon.  After work, we're heading to the movie theater to see
the new Sonic movie.  From what I heard, the new Sonic movie is solid.
That would be a welcome surprised, but as we all know, a movie is just
an excuse to get out of the house and eat popcorn.

Happy Friday, everyone.  Hope you have a great day.  I'll see you
tomorrow.

*** 2020-02-22 Saturday demos, goals, and movies

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends.  Happy Saturday to all of you.  To set the
scene here, the whole Recker family slept in until about /kwart over
tien s'ochtends/.  That's Dutch for "a quarter past ten in the
morning".  As per usual, we woke to the sound of Rodney's tiny,
melodic voice filling the hallway, his faced pressed up against his
cracked door, singing /Helooooooo?  Is anyone there?  Can you hear
me?/

"Come on in dude," called back into the hallway.  Once he had
permission, Rodney walked in like he owned the place, proceeding to
splay his toy monster trucks and motorcycles over the bed.

Sitting at the dining room table, we all just finished our breakfast.
I fried a pair of eggs and made some toast for Rodney and I.  "I'll
just stick to the classic pregnancy breakfast," said Marissa pouring a
bowl of Cheerios and picking a half blueberry muffin out of the
plastic container on the table.

I'm grateful we had a chance to sleep in.  After putting Rodney to bed
and burning some popcorn calories in the form of chores, Marissa and I
started the movie /Parasite/.  The plan was to start the movie and
maybe go to bed an hour later, but unsurprisingly, the movie held our
attention until 2 in the morning.  "Finishing this movie is non
optional," I said at 1 AM getting up to grab another beer from the
fridge."

/Parasite/ was a hell of a movie.  It all happened so fast, I'm still
processing it.  Marissa had some thoughts this morning.  "I was
thinking, and maybe /the house/ is the host, you know?  The people,
rich and poor, were all kind of taking advantage of it."

"That's an interesting take," I said between sips of coffee.  "I
definitely need to think about this movie, I'll probably be thinking
about it all day."

As I sit here, now at the computer in our bedroom drinking a crisp cup
of coffee, I'm reflecting on yesterday's work day.  When I got into
work in the morning, the team was already busily making last minute
touches to our slides.  We were giving a demo this morning to some
other teams in the company.  The attendance list was actually looking
pretty decent.  After grabbing a cup of coffee and settling in, I
opened up my own slides in preparation.  I'd be presenting some of the
work I did to help the Interface team, which sits beside us, get one
of their smaller projects onto our new tool and workflow, touting them
as a /customer success story/.  I chatted with their manager, Seth,
over slack to get some background context.

The morning demo went well.  Our team was presenting in peak form, and
there was good engagement, curious questions, and a positive energy
all throughout.  I later recounted the demo with my manager Heath
later in our one on one.  "I love those demos," I said.  "I think
there good for us, even if nobody shows up.  It feels like it keeps us
focused on what we're building, and it's a cool way to celebrate what
we've done," I continued.

Heath leaned back in his chair and crossed his arms.  "I've heard that
sentiment from everyone else on the team.  How to we make sure the
demos keep happening?"

I paused, staring at the wall while I took a long, thoughtful sip from
my Diet Coke.  "Come to think of it, I couldn't even tell you who set
this one up?  Who normally makes the demos?  I think the first step
here is to figure out who sets these up!"  Heath chuckled.  "I set
this one up, but I only do it if you all ask for one."  I nodded.
"That's good to know, I'll try to remember to ask about it every
Monday.  The demos are awesome."

Following our demo, I tried to get some traction around going out to
eat, but most of our team had already disappeared into the rest of
their day.  I heated up some leftover tomato soup instead, joining
some people in the cafeteria at the corner tables.  I grabbed a
neighboring chair and wedged it in so I could join my cohorts.  "Hey,"
Andrew sneered.  "That's not an approved /configuration/ of that
chair."  He was making a play on words, as I worked on the
/configuration/ team.  The trash talk and chit chat continued as I
finished my lunch before returning to my desk.

I worked through the rest of the afternoon, then we had one more wend
of the week meeting.  Our team went around the room, sharing what
development goals we had selected for the first half of the year.
"Share, then tell us what we can do to help you accomplish your goal."
Heath said.  "You know... apart from not making fun of you while you
do it."  I chortled in the middle of sipping my beer.

As I read my goals off my phone, I shared that I've struggled with the
goals process ever since it were first introduced.  "You should have
seen the first year I submitted goals.  The back and forth went on for
a while.  I thought we were just making new years resolutions, so I
was submitting stuff like /make better Chinese food/ and /learn a new
language/."  The goals are not just personal resolutions or attempts
to pick up new hobbies.  They're supposed to motivate you into trying
bigger things at work, and stretching yourself to develop new skills.
It was actually pretty cool hearing about what everyone else on the
team wanted to master.

At quitting time, I took the bus home, finding Marissa painting in her
gallery and Rodney fast asleep in his room.  We would leave for the
movie theater in about an hour, and after practicing Dutch completing
my push-ups and sit-ups, I was ready to sink into a relaxing evening
at the movie theater.  Arriving at the cinema, we found a comfy booth
in the bar area and ordered some dinner.  "I'll have a small beer
now," I said to the waitress.  "Then I'll probably get a big one right
before heading in.  You know, /standard procedure/."  The waitress
gave a knowing smile while penning my order.  "Oh yeah," she said
rolling her eyes.  "I know that move."

The Sonic movie was solid.  We enjoyed the whole thing.  The nostalgic
reboot didn't bode well at first, but I felt they added a lot of fresh
new ideas to the film, and they put a lot of love into the story line
to keep it entertaining.  It was certainly better than that god awful
Scooby Doo trailer we saw before the film started.  "What's with
rebooting all the movies with babies?  Baby yoda.  Baby scooby doo.
Baby Gru..."  Marissa complained coming out of the movie.  "I think
that's the new thing now, because of the viral response that Baby Yoda
got, everyone is spewing money into baby versions of things," I said.

Rodney thoroughly enjoyed the Sonic movie.  He sat at the edge of his
seat throughout.  Despite the excitement from the movie, being two
hours past his bedtime, his tiredness finally got the best of him.
Rodney passed out moments after his head hit the pillow.

Thanks for reading, everyone.  Hope you have a great, productive
Saturday.

*** 2020-02-23 Sunday dog movies, salmon patties, and parasite theories

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Today,
Rodney joined me for the early shift.  Together we got up at 8:30, let
the dogs out, cleaned the kitchen, put a Dutch baby in the oven, and
got Marissa up.  "You should have seen how Rodney woke me up this
morning," said Marissa coming down the stairs in her pajamas.  "He
leaned his face really close to me and said /MAMA.  DUTCH BABYYYY/."

/DUTCH BABYYYY/, we all hissed in unison around the breakfast table.
That's as good a battle cry as anything for our mornings on the
weekend.

At the moment, Rodney is on the couch watching /Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles/, or /Ninja Schildpadden/ as we've been calling it in an
homage to our Dutch learning.  Marissa is emptying out our main floor
coat closet, and I'm upstairs in the bedroom writing.  We've already
polished off a whole pot of coffee, and we've got a second prepped and
ready to brew for when I'm done.  We have a busy day ahead of us, but
before we get there, let's recap Saturday, shall we?

Yesterday after breakfast, I spent the rest of the morning hanging out
with Rodney on the couch.  We watched a movie while I worked on my
laptop.  A coworker introduced me to Semantic UI, which is a CSS
framework that helps style websites.  After fiddling around with it
on-and-off for a week, I finally decided to bite the bullet and redo
my website.  What you're looking at now is the new and improved
version.  If you have time, click around and let me know what you
think!

I think the process of redoing the UI has gotten me fired up about
growing my circle of daily readers.  I'm already kicking around ideas
to implement a daily photo, a word cloud, and maybe even getting some
other social networks involved in the morning publish.  We'll see how
that goes.

For lunch, we whipped up some paw patrol mac and cheese and reheated
some leftover roasted Brussels sprouts.  As we sat at the table, still
thinking about the movie /Parasite/, Marissa and I exchanged new
thoughts about the film we had seen the night before.  

After lunch, Rodney went upstairs for quiet time, and after spending
some time cleaning up the house, Marissa and I crashed on the couch.
I enjoyed a cup of ginseng tea while watching Food Wishes youtube
videos.

"Uh... can you make that?" said Marissa sleepily in napping position
on the couch, referring to a video for seared fresh salmon patties.  I
nodded, and restarted the video, opening my grocery list on my phone.

Around five, I went upstairs to get Rodney up from his nap, leaving
Marissa to sleep.  The two of us crept by her through the living room,
changed into coats and shoes, then left for Hy-Vee.  Even though it
was only a hight of 37 yesterday, it felt like Spring was in the air.
It's funny how that works, isn't it?  After a long winter, five measly
degrees above freezing temperature is enough to make me want to tear
off my winter coat and play football in the park.

Back at home, I got busy prepping the salmon while Rodney filled the
dining room with toys.  I sauteed some onions, bell peppers, and
celery.  I minced some raw garlic.  I chopped up a pound and a half of
raw salmon meat on my cutting board with a cleaver.  The dogs recoiled
in fear as my heavy knife clattered in the kitchen.

I combined everything in a big bowl, adding spices, mayo, fresh
parsley, and mustard, then left the bowl in the back of the fridge to
cool while I prepped the salad.

Taking the salmon meat out of the fridge, I formed them into four
large patties and rolled them in panko bread crumbs.  When it came
time to fry them, they stayed together pretty well.  We had two giant
patties in tact, and two of them broke apart.  I finished cooking them
together at the end, and it ended up working out.  The smaller pieces
were easier for Rodney to eat.  "A+", said Marissa with a mouthful of
food.  What a strange, wild, and amusing recipe.

Rodney went to bed, and Marissa and I spent a few hours catching up on
chores and moving things into the basement.  Carefully navigating our
creaky, wooden stairs, I cradled our bed frame which Marissa
disassembled down to the black metal poles.  "This is so treacherous,"
I said, rolling my neck and tip-toeing around the corner of the
stairs.

After wrapping up work for the evening, Marissa and I headed to the
couch for an evening movie.  Her pick was /Togo/, the live action
movie wherein Willem Dafoe goes on a dangerous life saving excursion
with sled dogs.  Since the dogs don't fair well with animals in
movies, we packed them in our bedroom so we could enjoy the movie in
peace.  I fixed a small snack, spreading peanut butter on a stalk of
celery and sprinkling it with raisins.  "What better time to eat
something that could kill them then when they're safe upstairs," I
joked, referring to the raisins.

We have a busy day today.  This is our final day before moving out of
our house for a week.  We have a few more things to mover into the
basement and into the shed, but all in all, we did a great job staying
on top of things and making the transition as easy as possible.  Now
that most of the preparation is finished, I'm looking forward to our
week long, working stay-cation.  And you better believe the blog will
continue on.

Hope you have a wonderful Sunday.  See you tomorrow morning for our
final entry before hitting the road.

---

*Addendum*: so I got to writing down some thoughts about Parasite, and
it got a little wordy, so I decided to tack it on at the end as to not
disrupt the usual recap.  Also, spoilers ahead if you haven't seen it.

*Who is the Parasite?*

Our first observation about the movie /Parasite/ is the cynical take
on capitalism.  The movie presents a world in which economic status
has nothing to do with ambition or ability.  The wealthy Parks family
is a host to economic parasites.  The Kim family cons them into
hiring them to provide services they aren't qualified to do, and their
maid is stealing food to feed her husband who is secretly living in
the basement.

Despite their wealth, the we learn that the Parks family gives nothing
back to society.  The mother sleeps all day and doesn't do housework.
The son cannot sit still, and doesn't know how to focus.  The father
works, but admits that without a housekeeper to cook and clean, their
house would fall apart.  The Park family is a social parasite.

Comparing the Kim and Park family, the Kim family are much more
skillful.  They are resourceful, hard working, and indomitably clever.
The Parks family is gullible and out of touch.  The message of the
film is that economic status has nothing to do with ability.  All the
Kim family can hope for is to become more effective parasites of the
wealthy, while the Park family barely has to try in life.

*The Rock*

We found this from a fan theory on reddit.  The rock symbolizes the
lie of capitalism - "the American dream" that allows people to achieve
wealth if they work hard enough and causes people to compromise
morality to get ahead.  Like Min says, the rock /grips him/, and he
carries it around like a heavy burden.  In the end, it's the think
that bashes him in the head, and when he wakes up, he has a plan to
earn wealth and free his father.

*Ideal & True Self*

Another great fan theory we found.  The characters living in the house
are Mr. Kim's perceptions of himself and his family.  Mr. Park is his
idealized self.  He's cool, rich, and well respected.  You get the
sense that he has a bit of a man crush as he's driving him around.
Remember how he kept asking, "But you love your wife very much, don't
you?"  Did you get the sense that he was projecting?  Like he was
trying to make sure that in his ultimate fantasy, that he would still
love his wife.  The rest of the Parks family is a little flat,
character wise.  The kids are spoiled, a bit naughty, and the wife is
lazy, but they are supported by the fathers wealth.

The remaining characters represent the true Kim family.  The father
lives in the basement, ambtionless, and without a plan.  He has
checked out, and even experiences the best moments of his life through
the basement.  He feels /everything/ has happened down there.
Meanwhile, his wife is the busy housemaid steeling food, and nourishing
his complacency by secretly feeding him.  The imagery of the guy in
the basement sucking on a bottle of milk was powerful.

When the son sees the man in the basement, he his gripped with fear,
meant to illustrate how seeing his fathers true form would affect Min.
Min wants to think his dad has plans and ambitions, but in the end,
his father reveals to him that he's learned its best to have no plan.
This causes Min to literally wrestle and fight his father's true form,
as symbolized by Min fighting the guy in the basement.  This ends with
his head being bashed in with the rock - the lie that he can still
earn wealth and change free his father from the basement.  "You can
just walk up the stairs," sounds like a fantasy about a mended
relationship does it?

The violent garden party also has significance.  What causes Mr. Kim
to finally lose it is seeing Mr. Parks recoil in disgust at the smell
of his true self.  He realized that his true self and idealized self
are incompatible, and he kills his idealized self and becomes his true
self in the basement.  He gives up on a life of wealth.

*** 2020-02-24 Monday moving out

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Monday.  I'm coming to you from a
temporary battle station at Canine Sports Zone, where our family is
holding out all day until we can move into our AirBNB for the week.
Against my better judgment, I spent the first hour here trying to get
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles working for Rodney, which led me to
discover that our home media library was unreachable.  This led me
down a rabbit hole of debugging.  While Rodney was waiting patiently
beside me watching YouTube videos, I dove into problem solving,
pinging various expected endpoints around our house.

It turns out that before leaving, I forgot to ask the guys not to
unplug anything upstairs.  They must have unplugged my datacenter
wall, which rebooted the network.  Everything is set up to return
gracefully except for the media server.  That machine is still on old
hardware which requires you to press a tiny white button on the front
of the panel.  There will be time to address that later.  I'll
probably call the guy and talk him through where the button is, or it
probably wouldn't be a very big deal to swing by the house later and
sneak up stairs.  Today they are just sanding, so no toxic fumes to
contend with just yet.  The way my head works, now that I know the
problem and have a solution, I can move on with my day.

So needless to say, this is a weird week for us.  Our Madison
stay-cation has been on the calendar for about a month, and we've been
chipping away at the work all along, using our new spiffy color
coordinated index card whiteboard system.  First came cleaning the
basement.  We did a full sweep for garbage, which included tearing
down Marissa's old resin tent.  While the basement was briefly empty,
we opportunistically squeezed in a weekend to pour some concrete and
paint, as this would become Marissa's new art studio after we moved
back.  Understandably, she gets restless if she doesn't have a place
to paint - much like I start to get snippy if I don't have a reliable
Internet connection.

Next came the actual moving.  We started with the things we don't use
every day - out of season clothes, rugs, extra furniture, books,
decorations.  While our house started to look emptier, things were
still easy to cope with.  One funny thing we notices is how much more
dog hair accumulates on the floor without the rugs.

This past week, things started to get a little more serious.  We broke
down Rodney's changer.  We packed up our bed frame and started
sleeping with our mattress on the floor - which was way more
uncomfortable than I remember.  Packed up our dining room chairs and
bar stools.  It's amazing how tired you get in your own house without
a place to sit down and focus, or even a place to change a diaper
without bending over.

Yesterday was the climax of the work.  We started things off with a
nice slow breakfast.  I made a Dutch baby, and drinking plenty of
coffee we got to packing the rest of the house up.  After heating up
leftover salmon for lunch, I packed up the kitchen.  I cleaned the
fridge, wiped down the counters, and basically did the equivalent of
an entire week of kitchen chores in one day.

Marissa spent most of the day evicting her art studio from Miles room.
After returning home, she'll have a change to spread out and take up
the whole basement, but for now, her whole art career is pact in
gallon sized ziploc bags, leaning against the wall of the basement
corner.

We taped plastic loosely around the computers.  We bagged our clothes,
emptying our closets and piling everything on the floor in the
basement.  "I'm doing my best to keep things organized down there, I
know you have a system," said Marissa while making trips.

"Oh the system has broken down," I laughed.  "It's kind of starting to
look like Good Will down there, just stick things where there's room
and try to leave room for us to walk around down there."

We packed our bags for the week, stacking everything we'd need by the
front door.  I packed a miniature kitchen, grabbing my peeler,
immersion blender, potato masher, and Dutch oven.

Marissa and I declared victory last night at midnight.  With the TV
sitting on the floor and with nothing else in our living room except
for our blue couch, I poured some tequila and we enjoyed some brief TV
time before bed.  Before turning in for the night, we scooted the TV
and the couch into the kitchen.

The work continued this morning.  Marissa packed the car while I
readied Rodney.  I changed him, and he helped me roll up his air
mattress and gather his toiletries.  /Woah, look!/ he said in wonder,
wandering around our empty, cavernous house.

After moving our mattress into the bathroom, we were officially ready
to leave.  We ceremoniously tore the final project card in half before
hitting the road.  I nodded off in our packed car with Ziggy in my lap
while Marissa barreled down the highway.

We were feeling tired, but also grateful, and to be honest, we're
proud that we kept everything under control.  Rodney is in good
spirits, the dogs are comfortably sleeping in their crates.  "Not only
did we pack everything up on time, but we didn't have to stay up all
night," boasted Marissa.  "And we cleaned our basement," I added.

Sometime last night, Marissa asked me if I was still excited about our
floors.  "It's funny," I replied.  "I forgot all about the floors.  I
was just so focused on moving everything."  I'll probably get excited
when I see them.

In a few moments, I'll take Rodney out to go pick up some donuts while
Marissa works on her mural.  I have the day off today, and now that
the craziness of this morning is winding down, this Monday is starting
to feel like a day off.

As always, thanks for stopping by.  I'm looking forward to writing on
the road throughout our stay-cation in Madison.  See you tomorrow,
readers, and happy floor week!

Oh, and if you see my younger sister Sarah around, do wish her a happy
belated birthday.

*** 2020-02-25 Tuesday canine sports zone, madison, and feekle'jams

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday, and thanks for stopping by.
For those of those accustomed to a journal entry at 8 AM on the dot,
please accept my apologies.  Apparently I'm still operating on weekend
hours - no doubt from the chaos of moving out for the week.  At the
moment, I've retreated downstairs to write, and Marissa and Rodney are
eating scrambled eggs and donuts upstairs.  Marissa and I didn't get
good sleep last night, but we're hanging in there.  Hopefully after a
mellow remote day, and maybe a long walk and some homemade soup this
evening, we'll start to rally.

Yesterday was a long day, and it was a blur of a day.  I barely
remember doing anything, let alone writing.  I was proud that we were
prepared, but sitting in the car while Marissa drove away, I promptly
nodded off.  Up until that point, I think it had been coffee and
adrenaline giving me the energy to move furniture and live out of a
bag all weekend while we packed.

We hung out at Canine Sports Zone the rest of the morning.  The dogs
were visibly relieved to hang out somewhere familiar for a while after
such a hectic morning.  And to add to that, I think they finally
convinced themselves they weren't going to the kennel.  Marissa
quietly worked on her mural on the back wall while Rodney wrestled and
tossed a ball around on the spacious agility course.

I get a kick out of watching Rodney hang out at Sports Zone.  He and
Marissa spend time there each week - way more often than I do - so
watching Rodney walk around the giant facility as if it were his own
basement is a funny side of him I don't usually get to see.  "He can
turn on the lights, he knows where the poop bags are... he's almost
too comfortable here," laughed Marissa as we watched him chat up a
lady practicing with her dog.

After a brief pizza lunch, we swung by the house.  The floor treatment
guys had just finished sanding and wanted to show us how it turned
out.  If I didn't know any better, I would think they were done for
the week.  The floors were sanded down, and looked brighter and
more... /wooden/?  I'm kind of out of my element when it comes to
house construction, so as he walked around and talked shop with
Marissa, my only contribution was "Wow, it looks like an art gallery
in here."

After a walk through, we jumped back in the car and headed to our
temporary house.  We found our designated parking spot, and after two
incorrect guesses, we found the lockbox with our key.  The house was
pretty beautiful.  We sighed in relief, compounded by the fact it was
the first location we've been to all day where we could shut the door
and take our shoes off.  The dogs darted around the living room.
Marissa dumped Rodney's trucks, airplanes, and coloring books on the
ground.  I signed into Plex on the TV and promptly queued up a
never-ending shuffled playlist of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.  After
we finished unpacking, Marissa and I each took a couch and napped
through the rest of the afternoon while Rodney quietly played at the
foot of the couch.

I woke around five to the dogs crying at the door.  Instructing Rodney
to stay behind with Momma while she slept, I leashed the dogs and
slipped out the front door, locking it behind me.  Together, we walked
further up Jenny street along the lake.  I imagined what it would be
like to be a visitor in Madison, and staying in a vacation style lake
front rental, that was easy to do.  I'd probably walk the same route,
and stand in the same place I stood looking over the lake.  In the
distance a few blocks away, the bustling bars, coffee shops, and
restaurants on proper Willie Street could be heard.  If I was a
visitor, I'd be tempted to walk deeper into the city, following the
noise until I stumbled into a place where I could drink a beer with
the dogs.  Madison is a cool city, isn't it?

When I returned, we packed the dogs away.  I changed Rodney into his
favorite pair of pajamas.  "I thought we were going out," asked
Marissa.  "Why is he in his pajamas?"

"It's vacation, who cares," I said over my shoulder.  "Plus these are
his /feekle'jams/ we're talking about.  These things are always in
style.  He just looks like some classic Willie Street hipster hitting
the town, no one is going to look twice."

I bed /feekle'jams/ deserves an explanation.  I was saying /vehicle
jammies/, shortened to /vehicle jams/.  Rodney adds his own toddler
flair by just saying /feekle'jams/.  And like with most phrases
circulating in hour house like a game of telephone with the English
language, we made him even more confused by adopting that phrase also.

We had a nice sit down dinner at Eldorado grill, right on the corner
from where we were staying, then returned to put Rodney to bed.  I
walked up the street to the co-op, picking up milk, eggs, a bottle of
red wine, and some donuts.  We capped the night by watching the season
premier of Better Call Saul, then finishing up the movie /Togo/.

As I got up to refill my wine glass, I tripped on a step in the middle
of the room.  Marissa chuckled.  "I can only imagine how many people
have face planted there," I said regaining my balance.  "It's
treacherous.  Look, it blends right in to the floor.  It's just a
sudden drop."

"There's also a bad one in the basement that almost took Rodney,"
replied Marissa.

Back to this morning - it felt good to wind up for a work day.  I'm
looking forward to feeling productive, even if it just means catching
up on emails and finishing a few tickets from our backlog.  Being on
ticket duty this week, it's kind of a good fit for where my head is.
I feel a little scatter brained, and I'm hoping some of the familiar
routines of work will help establish a feeling of normalcy.  After
such a crazy weekend, it's easy to forget that this is a vacation
home.  It's designed to be relaxing, and I'm sure after the right
amount of naps, home cooked meals, and long walks down a new street,
I'll get there.

And above all, it felt good to write.  Writing in a new environment
with so much going on is a challenge, but in a good way.

Hope you have a great Tuesday today.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-02-26 Wednesday sandwiches, soup, groceries, and routines

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  It is day three of our
Madison working Staycation.  Last night while putting Rodney to bed, I
used my fingers to count the remaining evenings - Wednesday, Thursday,
then we leave sometime Friday morning.  I'm sure he appreciated the
sync up, but I was mainly reviewing the facts for myself.

This morning, I'm happy to be a little closer to regularly scheduled
programming.  I took the dogs for a little walk around the block so
Ziggy could poop.  When I returned, I gave them their scoops of food
in plastic tupperware bowls, then took a hot shower before once again
leaving the house to cross the street and pick up coffee.  Yesterday
morning, I bought a bag of ground coffee from the same coffee shop,
thinking I could hold it down back at the house with the provided
Mr. Coffee machine.  But Mr. Coffee had other plans.  Mr. Coffee
spewed water and grounds all over the place - leaking down the side of
the pitcher and pooling on the kitchen counter.  Later that evening
while preparing for dinner, I would do a dry run brew cycle with just
water, and sure enough, the same angry sputtering mess ensued.  Talk
about bad flashbacks to the Mr. Coffee life.  God, I miss my
Moccamaster.

I worked through the morning, attending some morning meetings from the
couch in the much cooler basement.  Around lunch time, we packed up
and went for a walk down the street to Madison Sourdough.  Rodney
ordered the PB&J of the kids menu.  "Great choice," said the woman at
the counter.  "I was actually going to have one of those for lunch
myself," she continued.  Rodney's sandwich was a regular PB&J, but
served on this beautiful thick house made toasted white bread, with a
side of fruit and whipped cream.  Marissa also ordered well - she got
a breakfast sandwich with egg, cheese, and bacon.  Then there's me - I
went with the cashew burger.

"I thought this would be more of an /impossible burger/ situation,
like with some deception at play, but the peanuts are very pronounced
here," I said peeling the bun apart.  "It's kind of like if you were
to take a bunch of boiled peanuts and step on them with a work boot -
a /very clean/ work boot," I continued.

I worked through the rest of the afternoon before joining Marissa
upstairs on the couch.  I plugged in the little super nintendo tucked
in the corner and played some Ninja Turtles.  Marissa sleepily smirked
and chuckled from her reclined position on the couch while I got my
ass kicked.

Marissa got Rodney up from his nap.  I followed her down the stairs,
making a grocery list.  We packed the dogs, then jumped in the car,
headed toward Hy-Vee.  It was a further drive from Willie Street, but
my heart felt fuller the further we drove into familiar territory.
Even Rodney started to perk up.

"I've noticed something about vacations," I blurted out while we
waited at a red light.  "Being away from our house is tiring, and now
the whole dynamic makes sense to me.  I think when we travel, we get
tired out having to adapt to a sudden transition and new routines, and
we try to compensate for it by going out, having extra drinks,
and getting new experiences."  Marissa nodded along in understanding.

"Since this isn't really a /fun/ trip per-say - I'm still working, and
we don't have anything fun planned, this week is a good opportunity to
turn down one of the channels and listen to the other more closely."

"I don't understand," said Marissa.  "Explain."

"Sorry," I said shaking my head.  "I think I jumped into an analogy
without setting it up.  I was picturing recording a song in garage
band, and if you have two tracks to your recorded song, it will let
you mute one so you can just listen to the other in isolation."
Marissa nodded while driving, and I continued.

"Just the act of leaving the house takes a big toll on our energy and
stresses us out.  Without us trying to make up for it by having fun,
that effect is much easier to observe, right?"

"Yeah, I think I follow now." said Marissa.

I think the take away here is that I think when we travel anywhere, we
should take our routines with us.

We parked at Hy-Vee.  Marissa pulled into the /expectant mothers/
parking spot.  Before leavng the car, she unzipped her coat adjusted
her baby bump.  "I need to look pregnant.  Whenever someone parks in
this spot, that's the first thing everyone does, right?  You check if
the person is pregnant."  She craned her neck in the front seat of the
car, miming the scenario she was describing.  

"No," I said after a hearty laugh.  "That's definitely just you.
Don't worry, you earned the right to park here.  You look /very/
expecting," I teased patting her belly.

At Hy-Vee, we picked up leeks, shallots, a six pack of beer, and some
other snacks.  Back at home, we cued up a playlist of water slide
videos for Rodney.  Discovering the YouTube app on the house's living
room TV was another powerful force for reestablishing a sense of
normal.  Marissa sat at the bar while I cooked soup, struggling to cut
the leaks with the blunt knife and flimsy cutting board.  "Look, this
thing might as well be a giant butter knife," I said, holding up the
giant chef's knife and skimming the blade against my palm.  Rodney
visited the kitchen three times for pieces of cheese.  After cooking
the soup, I used a drinking glass to ladle it into Styrofoam bowls and
ripped up a loaf of bread with my hands.  We sat at the dining room
table and ate.

Perhaps I was just projecting, but I could almost feel the fruity
onions and shallots gently breaking up the taco chips, pizza, and
donuts that had been sustaining me.  Marissa slumped back in her
chair.  "Well I feel better," she said.

"I do too," I replied.  "I think everything with me comes down to
food.  I literally feel back at 100% at this moment," I said buttering
another piece of bread with our shared plastic knife.

This morning, Marissa is taking the dogs to agility class.  Rodney and
I are going to camp out in the house for a while, then we'll go for a
walk down Willie Street and find some place with WiFi to sit with
computer and coloring books.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.  Thanks for stopping by.

*** 2020-02-27 Thursday coffee shops, soup from a bag, and a beer with rodney

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  I've just returned from
picking up coffee for the morning.  Walking up the block and across
the street to Willie Street's Ground Zero Coffee has been a fun little
morning routine this week.  This morning, while filling to-go cups at
the coffee bar, I saw somebody casually walk through the door with a
leashed dog and stand in line.  I mentally ear marked the occasion, in
case I feel like going on an adventure with one or both of the dogs
today.

I decided to work remote the rest of the week.  Rodney has been doing
great here, but it's tough keeping an eye on the dogs.  With no fence
between us and the busy intersection of Jenny and Williamson, we've
had to resort to leashing them up and walking them up the block to the
same sad little grass spot to do their business.

I sure do miss just flinging the back door open and letting them tear
into the back yard at will, and I'm sure they do to - especially
Ziggy.  She seems to have a surplus of energy this week, darting
around the house randomly, throwing her body on the rug and couch,
almost as if she was charging a battery in her tiny body that ran on
static electricity.  Last night while Marissa and I were trying to
corral the dogs into the basement bedroom so we could turn in for the
night, Ziggy stubbornly waited at a flight of stairs, wagging her
tail.  She baited us back upstairs, acting like she had an urgent
concern there, then proceeded to run around us in circles, biting
Ollie's neck, trying to entice him to join.  I abruptly called a
/cease fire/, scooping Ziggy up in my arm and carrying her to bed like
a handbag.

Yesterday morning, Marissa left for agility class with the dogs,
leaving Rodney and I to hold it down at home.  Just before my 9:30
meeting, I heard Rodney stirring and calling out on the baby monitor.
I quickly changed him and set him up on the couch, where he contently
picked at a bowl of cereal while watching YouTube.  During my stand-up
meeting, his head and spacey eyes were barely visible from the corner
of my webcam.  I got a good chuckle from the team, spinning the laptop
around to prove that he does indeed like watching wordless water slide
montages on YouTube in lieu of morning cartoons.

After morning stand-up, that was pretty much a wrap for the social
component of my day.  And after gawking in the morning journal about
going on a coffee shop adventure with Rodney, it dawned on me that I
had the only house key, and it would be a bit cruel to hit the down
and lock the door behind me when Marissa would be back within the
hour.  And Rodney was pretty content with his never ending water slide
montage playlist.  So we laid low the rest of the morning until
Marissa returned.

For lunch, Marissa made PB&J's.  I also heated up some leftover soup.
How did I make leftovers?  I've become something of a professional at
rifling through this kitchen for makeshift solutions.  I found a few
scrap gallon ziploc bags in the back of the cabinet.  Once the soup
cooled, I poured it into a bag, propped up by a drinking glass.  When
it was time to heat it up, I snipped the corner off the bag and
squeezed it back into the glass, much like one might decorate a cake
with a pastry bag.  I microwaved the tall cup of soup and proudly
joined my family at the table for lunch.

After eating, Marissa left with Rodney to go work on her mural at
Canine Sports Zone, this time leaving me home with the dogs.  I worked
the rest of the afternoon, struggling to find a comfortable
combination of room, chair, and shirt.  The upstairs of this house
feels like a balmy 80 degrees, while the basement is a frigid dungeon.
But despite the shuffling around, I managed to get a lot of work done.
I cruised through some backlog tickets, and for the first time I had a
chance to kick the tires on our new deployment tool.

Marissa returned and put Rodney down for a nap.  I packed my laptop
and took a walk to the grocery store.  I love the long, straight walk
to the Willie Street Co-op.  And sticking to simple stamppot
ingredients, I didn't rack up the kind of tab I've come to associate
with the hip & healthy neighborhood grocery store.  I grabbed some
potatoes, a beautiful head of kale, some locally farmed sausage, and a
loaf of parmesan & peppercorn sourdough bread before making the
exhilarating and chilly walk back to the house.

It only took a few minutes to peel the potatoes, rinse the kale, and
get it in the dutch oven with water.  On an impulse, I also sliced up
a leftover shallot and added it to the pot before laying the sausages
on top.  I brought the Dutch oven to a simmer and covered it.  Rodney
strolled into the kitchen, and I suddenly grew fascinated with how he
was dealing with his boredom.  He leaned up against the fridge with
his hands in his pockets, waiting for me to ask about his day.

"Did you have a good day, dude?" I asked.  Rodney's eyes lit up.
"Yeah... sports zone... talked to Shawna'jess... working."  His voice
trailed off as he looked at the near empty beer.  "Hey... wanna
beercha?" said Rodney gesturing at me.

"Sure dude, I'd love another," I said, slamming the rest of it.
Rodney heaved the fridge open and gingerly took my empty bottle,
placing on the fridge in the shelf.  He handed me another, then helped
himself to his milk.  He raised his glass to me and smirked.  We
toasted, then he strolled away to play with his toys in the living
room.

Hope you have a great Thursday today.  Here's to one more day in the
temporary house, and one more day of the work week.

*** 2020-02-28 Friday locked doors, special treatment, and poop in the window sill

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Friday.  It's an especially happy Friday for
the Recker family.  This morning is checkout.  Later today, we'll pack
the car and return home, where we'll break out just enough furniture
for Rodney to nap and for me to sit with my laptop until the workday
ends.

I just returned from a fun little adventure.  As I was fishing a clean
outfit out of the dryer this morning, I could hear stirring in his air
mattress.  "Wanna come out, dude?" I said peaking into the room.
Rodney readily jumped out of bed and joined me in the laundry room.

Ziggy too was on edge this morning.  She was now 36 hours into a
nervous poop strike.  Last night, her paranoia around bikes, cars, and
generally anything that moves was in full swing, and she just couldn't
do the deed.  But something about her body language told me that she
was getting close to /crossing the picket line/ if you know what I
mean.  So after getting Rodney into a new outfit, I suited up and
headed out the door with dog leash and toddler in hand.  Ziggy pooped
on the way to the coffee shop just after we crossed the street, and
without going into too much detail, it was a pretty magnificent
specimen.  For a thirty pound dog, one might thing it was deposited by
a 100 pound German Shephard.  I bagged up her gift and we continued on
our way.

One thing I've noticed about this part of town is that anyone with
kids and dogs gets special treatment.  Even last night at dinner I
noticed people will stop their conversation just to cast a smile at
Rodney or our dogs.  Entering the coffee shop, you would have thought
I was the pope or something.  A guy behind me starting showing Rodney
old pinball machine parts, and left him with two metal balls as a
souvenir.  "Just wanted to let you know," he said grabbing my arm.  "I
gave him one metal ball, and he said he wanted another for his
sister."

"Cool, dude, thanks," I said.  I was tempted to break the news that he
was just hustled by a three year old who has no sister, but the girl
behind the counter called my attention asking to give Ziggy a treat.
I nodded, and abandoning a line of people out the door, she came
around to give Ziggy a slice of turkey.  But the people behind me were
in no rush either.  They stood watching on with wide, content smiles,
undoubtedly thinking to themselves /Just look at that dog and young/
/child./ /Take all the time you need, you magnificent American
family/.

The worst part about this is that on the way back to the house, I
realized that I left Ziggy's poop sitting on their window sill.  I
must have been distracted by the bombardment of social interaction,
and the reason that I'm here writing now is that I made a judgment
call that I'm not proud of.  There's worse things I could have left on
their window sill, right?  At least dog poop is compost friendly.

Now that I've gotten all that off my chest, like an Internet
confessional, I can recap yesterday.  I worked form home in the
morning, then around lunch time, I threw some leftovers and a beer in
my backpack and we made our way to canine sports zone.  After setting
up at a chilly picnic table beside the dog ring, I scavenged around
the staff only break room for a bowl and fork, heating up my lunch.
Marissa and Rodney joined me to enjoy their sandwiches.  I worked
through the afternoon at the table, but then had to relocate to the
cold floor so I could charge my battery.

Would you entertain some light macbook griping?  This new work
computer I ordered is thus far a bit of a downgrade.  Compared to my
old computer, the battery is a sippie cup of electricity, and I
seemingly need to charge it every hour.  And I have to wonder how much
battery power is already being squandered on this ridiculous touchbar,
whose purpose is, I gather, to just flash suggested emoji's for things
I'm typing and, of course, be available to summon the Siri setup
wizard each time my pinky accidentally brushed it on the way to
hitting the delete key.  As always, I remain thoroughly impressed with
Apple's innovation in finding new ways to disappoint me.

We returned home, and I worked the rest of the day from our couch
while Marissa and Rodney napped.  After Marissa awoke, we made plans
to go out to dinner at an Indonesian food place within walking
distance.  As she was getting ready to leave, Marissa noticed that
Rodney had locked the bathroom door from the inside while fiddling
with the lock.

"He's probably not used to all these doorknobs," I joked, referring to
the missing doorknobs in our house.  Marissa laughed as she studied
the lock.  After scouring the house for picks and keys, we finally
decided to take the doorknob off.

After finally using the bathroom, we put the dogs away and headed out.
We were ushered to a small table in the back.  I was excited to try
restaurant style Nasi Goreng and compare it to my own.  Their take on
it was edible, but by no means life changing.  My meal looked like a
bowl of brown rice with some awkward cucumber slices wedged around it.
But it didn't make me sick, I give them credit for that.  Rodney
picked at his Thai fried while we played with his dinosaurs and
trains.  I was still grateful we had time to sit in silence, and enjoy
the luxury of people bringing food to us.  And of course, bask in the
loving stares from the Willie Street locals.

That's what I got today.  Here's to Friday, and here's to returning
home.  Even though our house will be empty, I have a feeling that it
will still feel amazing to walk in the door, smell our own air, and of
course enjoy the sheen of our new wood floors.

Have a great Friday, everyone.  Thanks for stopping by.

*** 2020-02-29 Saturday moving out, moving in, portillo's, and carrot soup

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well on this Sunny leap
day.  It feels so good to be back in my own room at my own computer
drinking my own coffee.  Our home is even better than I imagined it
would be.  This morning, I'm grateful for home.

This morning, we all woke up on the later side.  I woke up to Rodney
hooting and jumping around in his room.  I changed him, then ushered
him bottomless down the stairs to dig a fresh pair of pants and
underwear out of his bag in the kitchen.  After setting him up with
some cartoons on the couch, I got to cooking breakfast.  This morning,
I had a meager supply to work with - just two eggs and one potato
leftover from last nights soup.  I diced the potato, rinsed it, then
taking extra care not to spill any of the little cubes, dried them on
a paper towel before shallow frying them in olive oil.  I toasted some
pieces of bread and cut them into wedges.  I scrambled the first egg
for Marissa and cooked the second sunny side up, excising some of the
whites for Rodney's plate (and that's not me being stingy, he actually
prefers the whites!).  As a finishing touch, I scraped the near empty
container of creme friache in the fridge clean to make two dollops for
the potatoes.  Not a bad breakfast for just a potato and two eggs.

"I slept the best I have ever slept," said Marissa coming down the
stairs and joining us at the table.  I nodded in agreement.

"This morning when I woke up, I was so comfortable it felt like I was
floating in warm water."

We had a crazy day yesterday.  It was a blur of code, slack, packing,
and remote meetings.  We had to check out of our rental house by
eleven, and even with our packing game at peak form this past week, it
still took 45 minutes to scour the house and get everything in the
car.  With Marissa and Rodney in the car with ten minutes before
checkout to spare, I did a final walkthrough of the house.  Just
before locking the door, I swiped an energy drink out of the fridge.
I felt I had earned that one.  The day we moved in, the owner texted
us with instructions to remove it from the freezer.  Apparently the
cleaning crew had left it behind.

After locking the door behind me and leaving the key in the lock box,
we finally made our way home.  Our house looked like an empty art
gallery.  The floors looked so bright and healthy.  We spent a few
minutes pacing around, observing the rooms in our home.

"They look new, but they still look like our floors," I said shuffling
my feet.  "Does that make sense?  I was worried they would look too
showy."

"Yeah," said Marissa in agreement scanning the floor with her eyes.
"They look so good, I don't even remember what they used to look like.
Weren't they orange or something?"

Marissa and I dragged the couch and chairs out of the kitchen.  I
hooked up the TV and Marissa set up some of Rodney's toys.  Marissa
ordered Portillo's, which arrived at our door shortly after.  "I
ordered a lot of food," said Marissa while opening the paper bags.
"Just... brace yourselves."

In our half assembled dining room, we sat around the table silently
and viciously devouring chicken, burgers, Italian beef, and fries.  I
felt like I wanted to sleep and run around at circles all at the same
time.  "OK," I said dabbing my mouth with a napkin.  "I'm going to
jump online... you good?"  Marissa flashed me a thumbs up while
chewing.

I worked the rest of the afternoon from our chair in the empty living
room.  I was pulled into an urgent project, and would need to have a
demo ready by the afternoon.  "OK Nate," I said in our remote sync up.
"I just wolfed down a lot of Portillo's and I'm feeling good.  This is
the last thing that stands between me and a nap."

Nate chuckled.  "OK," he replied.  "Let's do this."

As I worked, Rodney joined me in the living room watching ninja
turtles.  He jumped off the couch, and circled me with his makeshift
ninja swords, trying to entice me in combat.  "DADA.  YOU'RE
SHREDDER," Rodney yelled, widening his stance and brandishing his
weapons.  "Not now, dude," I said, fending him off while running shell
commands and bouncing between chrome tabs on my laptop.

Marissa put Rodney down for a nap, and I plugged in my laptop upstairs
and joined the meeting just as Nate was introducing our work.  The
demo went smoothly, and after one final debriefing meeting, I shut my
laptop and slumped in my chair.  With Rodney sleeping in his room and
Marissa asleep on the couch, I happily sneaked out of the house to go
to the grocery store.  As I passed through the dining room, I recoiled
in surprise.  Marissa had practically finished putting the whole house
together.  All that remained was a duffle bags in the corner of the
dining room.

I returned from the grocery store and got to cooking dinner, letting
the smell of carrot soup slowly wake Marissa and Rodney up from their
naps.  Once again, we sat down at our dining room table, but it felt
different this time.  The adrenaline was finally starting to wear off,
and our house was feeling more complete.  Nothing winds you down like
a good bowl of soup.

After putting Rodney to bed, we unpacked a bit more, then called it a
night a little earlier, retreating to the couch to catch up on Better
Call Saul.  After finishing the episode, we went to bed and sailed off
to sleep.

We have a fun day planned today.  We have some more things to unpack -
my closet is still empty, our rugs our rolled up in the basement, and
our books are still packed up, but we're taking it slow this weekend.
We're going to run some family errands, and we're kicking around the
idea of celebrating our homecoming at Dave & Busters.

It feels good to be home.  Thanks for stopping by, and I hope you have
a relaxing weekend.

** 2020-03 March

*** 2020-03-01 Sunday blueberry muffins, remote control cars, jackpots, and bad waiters

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It feels good to roll over into a new month,
doesn't it?  And where I'm writing this, the sun is warm, and stepping
outside I can feel every ounce of this hgih-of-fifty-degrees weather.
Way to go, March of twenty-twenty.  You're off to a strong start -
keep it up.

After rolling out of bed around 8:30, I threw on my hoodie and made a
quick drive to Hy-Vee.  We needed some things for breakfast, but most
importantly, our stash of Marissa's choice pregnancy craving - the
irreplaceable and addictive Hy-Vee Blueberry Muffins (with the sugar
coating) - was completely depleted.  /Careful now/, I muttered to
myself carrying the groceries into the house.  Still half asleep, I
was imagining the scene from Balto where they unload the life saving
serum off of the sled - an apt analogy that really captures how
important these muffins are to Marissa, I think.

I got to simultaneously cleaning the kitchen, putting groceries away,
and cooking breakfast.  I clarified some butter, preheated the oven,
and whipped up a batch of Dutch baby batter.  I laid a half pound of
bacon on the skillet and clambered on a chair to remove the batteries
from our smoke detector.

Somewhere in the middle of my Sunday breakfast routine, Rodney
barrelled down the stairs and happily greeted me.  He had in hand a
tiny remote control car that he had won at Dave & Buster's the night
before.  "Morning DADA," he chirped, still in his PJ's.  "Open it for
me?"

"Sure dude," I replied, checking the bacon quietly sizzling on the
stove from the corner of my eye.  I pried the truck free of its
plastic and cardboard restraints.  "We need some batteries," I said,
whipping open the kitchen drawer and digging around for the
screwdriver set.  The bacon began to sizzle more loudly as I found the
appropriately sized phillips head.  I grabbed a pair of tongs and
gingerly turned each strip of bacon, then dabbed up the grease with a
wadded paper towel before kneeling down to finish assembling the car.
I imagined I was disarming a bomb, and with clarified butter smoking
in the oven, hot bacon on the stove, and an anxious toddler waiting to
play with his new car toy, that was easy to imagine.  "There," I said,
setting the car on the table.  I wrapped my fingers around the
controller and applied pressure to the tiny joysticks.  The car
whirred to life.  I handed Rodney the controller before he excitedly
ran after the car.

At last, I set the table for breakfast.  Marissa sleepily wandered
into the dining room and grabbed a cup of coffee.  A smile spread
across her face when she saw two packs of her muffins waiting on the
counter.  "Let's eat," I said, pulling the skillet out of the oven.

"This is a /we're not leaving the house for a while/ kind of
breakfast," I said taking off my apron and joining everyone at the
table.

We needed a big meal this morning.  Last night, we went out to eat at
our favorite BBQ place, and the experience went down hill.  We were
hoping to get in and out relatively quickly, saving plenty of time for
video games at Dave & Busters.  But 45 minutes into patiently waiting
at our table, the light hearted joking turned bitter.  "The people
behind us are eating," said Marissa, gesturing with her eyes.  I
nodded.  "Yeah," I replied.  "And the people behind us finished.  We
sat down the same time they did."  Marissa caught the waiter standing
by the bar.  He looked like he was urgently trying to get a word in.
"Ah," said Marissa.  "He forgot to put our food in."

The host emerged from the kitchen with a tiny plate of fries and a few
ribs.  "This is from the kitchen," he said.  "Sorry about the wait,
the cook said he wanted the kid to have something to eat."  Marissa
took the plate, and we all nibbled on fries while Marissa scraped the
meat off the bones.  The host reappeared, this time with his attention
to me.

"Bad news for you," he said.  "We're out of ribs, was there something
you wanted instead?"  I laughed, glancing at Rodney's plate.  "Dude,
what an honor," I joked.  "You got the last ribs."  I turned to the
host.  "I guess I'll have the brisket."

The host, our waiter, and other people from the kitchen appeared
moments later with a fleet of plates.  Our waiter handed me a second
beer, the shortly after the bartender approached our table with the
same beer.  "I think that's a duplicate," I said gesturing at my full
glass of beer.  The bartender offered it to Marissa, who meekly turned
it away.  She remained at the side of our table for a moment, trying
to convince me to drink it, mumbling something about how /it's already
on the table/.  "I don't want it," I said a little more assertively.

Marissa took Rodney to the bathroom, and as I said eating my plate,
from the corner of my eye I could see the host and the waiter staring
at me while I ate.  The waiter made a few conspicuous laps around the
dining room, either glancing at me or asking me how things were each
time he passed.  I started to get agitated with the extra attention.
It was clear our waiter was overcompensating in the spirit of damage
control, and I hated how it felt.

We paid or tab and left.  We had about a half hour to play games at
Dave & Busters, and for a while it felt good to forget about our
dinner experience.  Rodney played a spin-to-win game and scored a
jackpot earning him a free spin.  An electronic alarm bell resounded
through the arcade, as the blinking and jittering screen flashed /1000
POINTS/.  Rodney spun the wheel again.  Jackpot again.  The alarm rang
much more loudly like a fire alarm with the same sustained ringing for
two minutes while the machine slowly counted up to 2000 points.  I
half expected the Dave & Busters bouncers to come out of the back room
as people walked by, openly complaining about the alarm noise.  "This
machine is HOT!" I yelled, as we wandered away to find another game.
With almost 4000 points to spend at the end of our brief gaming
session, the entire gift shop was his oyster.  He picked an extra
large sticky hand, a dinosaur hand puppet, and a remote control car.
"THANK YOU," he yelled in a tiny voice over the roar of the busy
arcade.  The girl at the counter beamed back at him, waving us on.

After getting home, Marissa put Rodney to bed, then we both got to
cleaning up the house.  Suddenly realizing how late it was, I started
to feel angry.  We had spent most of the night waiting for our food at
the BBQ place.  As I stood in the kitchen washing dishes and putting
food away, my thoughts raced.  My teeth gritted as I mentally
rehearsed reaming out the waiter that had forgotten to put our order
in.  Marissa's muffled voice could be heard in the kitchen.  "What?" I
said sharply, turning off the sink and leaning into the dining room.
"I can't hear you from in there, I have no idea what you're saying."
Marissa became sad, staring down at the ground.

"I'm sorry," I said.  "I'm really upset about dinner tonight, and I
need to talk about it."  I continued to think while cleaning for a
little while longer.  After reaching a stopping point, she joined me
on the couch with a bottle of water.  "I've been screaming at that
waiter in my head.  I think I'm really angry and bitter, and after
thinking about it, I think it clicked," I said.  Marissa patiently
listened on the couch.

"I'm actually mad at myself for not sticking up for us.  I know we
joke about how we have bad luck with waiters and eating out, but I'm
worried that we're pushovers, you know?"  Marissa nodded.

"We like to give people the benefit of the doubt, but you're right,
you have a point," she said.

"I'm just so upset that we left that place, and I was the one who felt
crummy.  That place should have been embarrassed, it took us an hour
to get our food, and we had a three year old sitting at the table.
Rodney went to bed late, we had less time at the arcade - it kind of
messed up the whole night.  We wanted to finish putting the house back
tonight." I said, wringing my hands in frustration.

"You're right," said Marissa.  "We should have made a plan, and walked
away.  Yelling at the waiter wouldn't have solved anything, but
absolutely should have just left."

I perked up.  "Yeah, I like that," I said.  "Next time this happens, I
think we should just leave.  I should have walked over to our waiter
and just said 'Hey, this took way too long, and I'm sorry but we're
leaving,'.  I wouldn't have to make a scene out of it, but at least I
don't just hold onto the frustration and take it out on you."

" - not that it's their fault I snipped at you," I continued.  "I'm
sorry about that."

I feel good about where we left things, and I'm grateful Marissa had
the wisdom to help us find a middle ground.  "Let's just have a plan
next time," she repeated like a refrain.  I nodded.  "This feels good.
I feel like I would normally just hold onto this anger.  I should have
acted, and left all this at the restaurant."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Thanks for reading, and I hope you have
a wonderful Sunday.

*** 2020-03-02 Monday church from home, crass bumper stickers, fish posters, and schlepman

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Thanks for stopping by.  I hope you're
prepared to begin another work week.  I know I am.  After a chaotic
week of working ticket duty, being on-call, and living out of a
suitcase in an AirBNB, I'm ready to bring things back to basics.  I'm
looking forward to going into the office and resuming my regularly
scheduled life without all the drama that comes with re-treating wood
floors.

Yesterday morning, after a long & full breakfast, we remained at the
table a little longer digesting our food before Rodney got antsy and
asked to play in the living room.  I brewed another pot of coffee, and
Marissa and I moved to the couch where we watched a sermon on YouTube.
It was one of those weekends where we needed some church, but
understandably didn't have the energy to leave the house.  Once
church-from-home concluded, we moved the party upstairs to get ready
for the day.

It was such a delight heading outside wearing nothing but a hoodie.
This time a year, even fifty degree weather makes you want to go for a
long walk in the park and spend as much time outside as you can, and
the evidence was all over town.  The bike bath teemed with people
running, biking, and walking their dogs.  As we drove around, I
dwelled on all the outdoor activities we had gone without all winter -
sitting at the biergarten, eating outside, and going for walks around
the city.  I think it's going to be a wonderful Summer.

We made our way all the way over to the Westside.  Now that the floors
were finished, the next undertaking we selected as a family was the
living room fish tank, and we set aside yesterday to stroll around
Pet World and gain inspiration.  But before that, we parked at
Culver's for a family lunch.

As we made our way through the parking lot, I stopped in my tracks at
a black car parked in front of us, my attention drawn to the single
bumper sticker which read, /F__k you, and that piece of shit you call
a car./  "Look at this bumper sticker," I said beckoning Marissa
over.  "Isn't that a strong statement?"

"Yeah," said Marissa strolling over.  "And it's the /only/ bumper
sticker.  That means something."  We stood for a few moments pondering
the sticker, and imagining the type of person who would stick that on
their car.  "It's not even a very nice car," I said, moving around the
back, pointing out the scuffs and scratches along the old exterior.
"It's just incredible that somebody would put that on their car."

"Let's try to sit by a window so we can see who gets into it," said
Marissa heading inside.

Nobody ever got into the car, but we had a nice lunch at Culver's.
Marissa and Rodney ordered a kids meal so they could get a free scoop
of frozen custard at the end.  "Did you save the bags?" asked
Marissa as I set out chicken and fries.  I took on a worried look,
then darted to the nearby garbage, fishing out two crumpled bags.
"Yes," I said, rejoining them at the booth.

We scarfed down our food, and when we finished, I started to clown
around with Rodney's dinosaur puppet while he finished eating.  I
mimed the dinosaur head at the edge of the table, pretending to steal
a french fry out of my own hand on the way to my mouth.  Rodney's
cackle could be heard through the entire restaurant.  After finishing
some frozen custard, we walked across the street to pet world.

Rodney excitedly scanned the walls for animals, pointing out the fish,
lizards, hamsters, rabbits, and even a /kitty Samuel/.  That's the
name of the cat at Ollie and Ziggy's vet office, and Rodney has come
to assume that /kitty-samuel/ and /cat/ are interchangeable terms.  We
took our time by the saltwater fish.  Marissa studied the clown fish,
and her attention was drawn to a poster on the wall.  "See, look at
all the different breeds of clownfish you can get."  She called me and
Rodney over - we were distracted by a large black scorpion that was
temporarily removed from its tank by a Pet World employee.  Marissa
called us over to the poster again, more assertively, triggering my
teasing instinct.  "Let's take a break from the exotic animals, Mom
wants us to stare at a poster," I said directed toward Marissa.
"C'mon Rodney, did you think we were here to look at animals?  We TOLD
you we came here to look at the fish posters, so that's what were
going to do," I said in feigned scolding.  "Did you get enough time at
this poster?  Do you need a half hour?" I continued.  Sometimes I
wonder if I take things too far.

Once we had our fill looking at animals and - more importantly - the
fish poster, we made our way home.  Rodney went down for a nap and I
slipped out the house to go to Hy-Vee to buy dinner.  "It's beautiful
outside," I said to my fried at the meat counter while he wrapped up
my tuna steaks.  "In fact, I think I'm going to grill these - first
time firing up the grill this year."  He nodded in approval and sent
me on my way.  Back at home, I lit the grill and prepared a kale salad
while waiting for the charcoals to heat up.  I grilled three tuna
steaks, serving them with salad and some toasted bread with sesame
seeds.

Once we had finished dinner, things started to get serious on the
chore front.  Marissa and I had a goal to finish putting the house
together this weekend, starting with Rodney's room.  We moved his
bookshelf and unpacked his suitcase while we scampered around the
upstairs floor in his pajamas before he joined me in our room for
evening workouts.  Of course we don't actually make Rodney workout -
he just has enthusiasm for anything that extends his bedtime routine.
In our bedroom, we did push-ups, sit-ups, and aided by a new pull-up
bar I picked up from Target for my closet door, some sit-ups as well.
I held Rodney by the waist so he could get the pull-up experience.
/THERE I WAS IN MY APARTMENT, DOING PUSH-UPS, GETTING STRONG,/ we
chanted quoting our favorite spider-man movie.

Out of breath, I flopped down in Rodney's bed and read him a story
before saying goodnight.  Marissa and I spent the rest of the evening
moving things up from the basement.  All the /schlepping/ has spun off
into a weird joke where Marissa refers to me as "schlep-man", or said
as one word, /schlepman/.  She orders me around like a wealthy
aristocrat.  /Uh, SCHLEPMAN.  I wish to read my book about DOGS,/ she
says in an airy, withering voice.  /Fetch it for me at once!/

We concluded the night in our bedroom, filling the project board with
new tasks for the week.  It feels liberating to move onto new goals
and projects.  This week, I'm rebuilding our NAS on some new, slimmer
hardware, and we're taking the first steps toward prepping the fish
tank.

Hope you have a wonderful day, everyone.  Thanks for reading.

*** 2020-03-03 Tuesday planning, packages, tacos, and growth spurts

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Thanks for stopping by.  I'm feeling good
today, and eager to begin another work day.  This week is so regular,
it's refreshing.  Sitting in our dining room at the computer, I'm
relishing just how incredibly normal our life feels, I'm and
absolutely loving it.

Yesterday was a busy morning.  On Friday, I had learned I'd be pinch
hitting for Heath and Nate, running the planning meeting in the
morning for the rest of the team.  The Monday morning planning meeting
is important, as it sets our trajectory for the rest of the week.  So
wanting to bring lots of energy and focus, I spent the first 45
minutes of work quietly reviewing tickets and writing notes at my
desk.  Julia, Fong, and I met in a corner room and went over
everything.  "It's still hard to say how much time we'll have to work
on stuff this week," I opened.  "With the visiting teams in town,
priority probably goes to making the most out of their time.  But our
only other instructions are to /Keep this train rolling/."

We went over work, amended my notes, then wrapped up early, filling
the rest of the meeting with some cordial chit chat about the weekend.
Working in an office, I enjoy asking people about their weekend.
Watching them fondly remember how they spent their free time is like a
brief window into their true self.  "I broke out the grill for the
first time this year," I proudly recapped.  "I was out there with just
a hoodie on, and loving every minute of it.  It was good to be
outside."

After our time ran out, we disbanded, closing the meeting room door
behind us.  I dropped my laptop off, then got to running some petty
errands around the office.  First stop was picking up a new trackpad
for my desk.  Coming back to my desk this week, my trackpad was
behaving weirdly, and I had also lost the charging cable.  I trotted
up to the seventh floor where I used our nifty little technology
vending machine to spit out a new one.

Next, I had to pick up some mail.  Out of gratitude for my help in
setting up Marissa's basement art studio, Marissa ordered me a little
gift in the mail.  But I accidentally left my old office building as
one of our primary addresses, and there was a different office there
now.  It had been so long since I reported to the old building for
work that I forgot which floor I used to work on.  "I just had to go
by instinct," I'd later recap to my team over lunch.  "I was like a
salmon returning to the spawning grounds."

I wandered into the six floor, where a heavy set guy in a Jets hoodie
met me at the door.  "We don't have anyone at the desk, but I'll get
it for ya, no problem," he assured me throwing his heavy back pack
down on the ground.  He later returned with a tiny box addressed to
me.  I thanked him, then eagerly opened the box standing on the
sidewalk outside the building.  It was a Bears mug!  Sleek navy color
and logo on the outside with a sharp bright orange interior on the
inside.  I proudly brought it back to my office, and I used it to
drink water the rest of the day.  The bears mug is home with me now -
in the end, I decided I couldn't supplant my long time Seinfeld mug
from the office.  Perhaps one day the Seinfeld mug can look forward to
retiring to a cushy life serving coffee to me on the weekends at home,
but not this day.

At noon, I left my desk and made my way upstairs, where the visiting
teams were meeting in a large room passing a microphone around.  After
they adjourned, I joined them in line at the hot taco bar, helping
myself to corn tortillas, fajitas, chicken, and some churros for
dessert.  As I nibbled on my plate from a corner chair, I chatted with
Chris and Julia, who had joined me at the table.  Chris was visiting
from our Melbourne office, and having hung out the last time he was in
town, we had a comfortable rapport.  "So how's your puppy?" he asked.
"Still winning awards in the agility ring?"

After some pleasant chat and banter over tacos, I packed my plate up
and made my way back to my desk, grabbing an extra churro for the
road.  I took a long walk around the square, then found a quiet spot
in the cafeteria to work for the rest of the afternoon.  As the day
was wrapping up, my phone rang.

"Want a ride home?" asked Marissa through the phone.  She was wrapping
up a baby appointment downtown and would be passing by the same time
the bus would have.  "Sure!" I replied.

"OK, Rodney wants to talk.  As always, just hang up when your bored."
I heard some rustling on the other end of the line before Rodney
picked up the phone and started to happily babble into the speaker.
Before I managed to get more than a few words in, he muttered
something about showing me the fish tank in the waiting room.  I heard
the phone speaker gently wrap on the glass as Rodney paused so I could
"see" into the fish tank.  Quiet laughter from other people in the
waiting room could be heard as Rodney put the phone up to his ear
again.  "SEE IT?  Dada, SEE IT?"

"Yeah dude," I replied.  "That's awesome."  Rodney hung up, and soon I
joined them in the car outside at our pick up spot.  We dropped Mom
off and continued onto Hy-Vee.

Rodney has lots of energy these days.  He brought a toy motorcycle and
racecar with him as props, and the entire way to the grocery store, he
puppeted a spirited conversation between them, throwing his high
pitched voice to speak on their behalf.

"Motorcycle and racecar are actually pretty good," Marissa later
advised me in the kitchen.  "At least they can be responsible -
earlier at Sports Zone I asked them to help put the other toys away.
It's dinosaur hand that's trouble.  He won't do anything you ask him."

As much as I miss Rodney's timid chit chat on the way to Hy-Vee, I'm
assured that it's probably a phase.  Maybe it's his bursty boyish
metabolism.  Maybe it's just being cooped up inside all winter.  For
every phase we went through that was difficult, it didn't last long,
and it usually marked the beginning of a growth spurt.  For now, I'm
fine arguing with a toy racecar and motorcycle, and maybe even a
dinosaur hand.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday.
Let's get to it!

*** 2020-03-04 Wednesday work, shyness, and our basement pot farm

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Thanks for stopping by.  Hope you have plenty
of coffee to drink on this chilly Wednesday morning.

Despite all my hemming and hawing yesterday about how this was the
perfect ultra regular week, I think that may have been wishful
thinking on my part.  As much as I'd like to have the perfect ultra
regular week to counteract last week, this week's summit is a bit of a
shake-up.  With several teams represented in a large conference room,
visiting from San Francisco, Ireland, and Australia, weeks like this
remind me of how shy I really am.  While trying to follow along with
the discussion, my head was racing trying to remember everyone's names
and roles at the company.  To add to the pressure, many of these
people have been with the company for as long as I have, and we've
even worked together remotely in slack conversations and remote
meetings.  And there's nothing more embarrassing than introducing
yourself to someone who already knows you, and whom you already met
with a webcam.

The discussion is good - there's no replacement for being in the same
room, and we're figuring out a lot of things this week.  But the inner
introvert in me cries out for space, quiet, and routine.

I had a quiet morning at my desk.  Most of my team is either out this
week or tied up in work for the Summit.  So I had a quiet morning to
listen to music, catch up on communications, and take care of some
house keeping.  I also spent some time reviewing slides for a
presentation.  This week, as part of my new duties on the engineering
onboarding squad in Madison, I'll be taking a group of new-hires
through a complete tour of the Zendesk technical stack.  The content
is already prepared for me, which is both a blessing and a curse.  Of
course I didn't need to do the research and legwork ahead of time, but
I still need to memorize the material and be ready to speak along
slides that I didn't create.  It's a new kind of challenge.

For lunch, I stole away to Starbucks and enjoyed a bacon panini and
bag of barbecue chips in a corner table.  The Starbucks on the square
continues to come through as a refuge of isolation, and yesterday I
needed some time to think and unwind away from the crowded office
teeming with visitors.  Maybe the sound of the clunky espresso machine
and hissing steam wand behind the bar takes me back to my first job in
high school when life was a whole lot simpler.  Maybe I just enjoy the
fact that most people aren't aware that Starbucks serves lunch food,
and there's virtually no chance of bumping into somebody from work and
getting caught off guard.  Whatever the reason, it's a good spot to
post up away from the office and browse reddit on my phone.

After lunch, I was invited to attend an afternoon session at the
summit, as the discussion would run tangent to our team's goals and
projects.  I grabbed my laptop and headed up to the top floor, waiting
around near the door of the conference room for things to reconvene.
A friendly face approached me, smiling and offering a hand shake.
"Alex!  How are you?" he said.  My thoughts raced, trying to recall
his name."

"/Rrrrrrrr.... Rafael!/" I exclaimed, grateful that my memory came
through under pressure.  Rafael is a good friend of mine from the
Dublin office, but most of our interaction has been over slack.  We
chatted for a few moments about Madison, and I muttered something
about how he managed to visit while there was snow on the ground - a
tired cliche that I've been abusing as a buffer amidst all the social
pressure.

"I owe you a beer for helping me set up Atlantis," said Rafael.

"Yeah!  Let's do it, I'll take you up on that," I laughed in the last
few moments before we filed into the conference room.

Despite the awkwardness, meeting people in real life is a fun way to
complete your mental picture of things.  The observations I gathered
about communication styles, body language, humor, helped add color to
my mental model of how the company works overseas.

At quitting time, I ducked out of the office to catch a bus, enjoying
the cool weather with a extra walk to the other end of the square.
Back at home, Marissa was crashed on the couch, and Rodney was busily
playing with toys in his room.  Marissa was zapped from watching
Rodney and keeping him clear of the electricians installing lights in
our basement.

I got Rodney out of his room and we jumped in the car, headed for the
grocery store.  "How was your day dude?" I asked.  I did my best to
connect with Rodney about something, but my head was still swimming
from work, and Rodney was mentally bouncing around the back seat of
the car.  "GOOD.  HEY, DADA, LIGHTS IN THE
BASEMENT... GRRBLGLGHGGRRR...," continued Rodney, throwing his voice
on behalf of Baby Giraffe.  "Oh yeah?  Tell me about it, baby giraffe"
I replied, absent-mindedly.

Back at home, I set Rodney up at the dining room table so Marissa
could continue napping on the couch.  He resisted at first, wanting to
play with toys and jump around in the living room, but after setting
up Ninja Turtles on the dining room computer, grabbing his markers and
coloring books, and further enticing him to remain there with cold
apple juice and some taco chips, he gave in, quietly coloring and
snacking while I prepared crunchwrap supremes.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa gave me a tour of the basement.
The electrician added new lights and light switches.  "And remember
all the cables along the ceiling?  They cleaned those up to!" Marissa
said excitedly.

Earlier in slack, Marissa had also told me a funny conversation she
had with the electrician.  "Were the previous owners of the house
really into... /plants/?" asked the electrician scrupulously.  "These
outlets in the ceiling are at 38 amps - way higher than a regular
outlet."

"Maybe?  The basement windows were all boarded up when we moved in,"
replied Marissa.

Though I wasn't there to witness it, I imagine there was a funny
moment of silence between Marissa and the electrician where the
realization settled in - the realization that our house was likely
formerly used to grow pot in the basement.  Looking at the basement
now, it makes sense.  It's sort of the perfect basement for that kind
of thing, liability aside.

"That's actually kind of a cool piece of history now," I said over
slack.  "Think of everything our house has been through."

Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  Hope you have a great day today.

*** 2020-03-05 Thursday training sessions, ninja swords, broken computers, and crunchwrap supremes

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Firstly, I'd like to congratulate you on
making it to Thursday.  The weather got colder this week, which is a
real bummer.  It feels like we should be well into spring now.  What a
cruel joke the Midwest likes to play on us every year.  Crummy
weather.  Lots of people are out sick.  Coronavirus is still running
amuck in the world.  It's a tough week for us, but at least it's
Thursday, and that means we're almost done with it all.  Soon we'll
have a weekend to regroup and come back next week renewed and
refreshed.

I'm feeling good today.  I've been rocking my usual 6.5 hours of sleep
every night.  I'm staying on top of chores, and the kitchen is busy.
I'm looking forward to heading into work today and getting stuff done.

Yesterday was pretty much a onboarding day.  Three of us from the
onboarding squad take turns giving three total sessions of talks.
Mine wouldn't be until the afternoon, but I met up with the group in
the morning to learn names.  

As an icebreaker, we went around the room and, pairing with our
general introductions, had to also introduce our most frequently used
emoji.  "This right here is /man in a steamy room/, I announced to the
room pointing at my drawing at the tip of my pen.  "First off, this is
a default emoji.  Comes in the stock set, which makes it that much
more surprising."  Some chuckles were heard around the room.  "Also,
it's just a great analogy - comes in handy when you're in a /hot/
situation at work, like an outage or trying to keep something from
blowing up.  I'm the man in a steamy room - but look, he's smiling.
Still a great attitude."

I met up with the group again around 12 o'clock for lunch.  Someone
from the headquarters in San Francisco ordered lunch for us.  "Isn't
that funny - that someone from San Francisco called a place next to us
and ordered lunch?" said Andrew.  I grabbed a salad and joined the
group at the table.  They were sharing observations about the training
material.

I remembered I had an crunchwrap supreme in the fridge that I brought
from home.  Now that I was eating a salad, that would go to waste if I
didn't act.  So on an impulse, I left for the kitchen, cutting up the
crunchwrap supreme into wedges and returning with them on a plate.
"Here we go," I said placing the plate on the table.  "This is what I
was going to eat for lunch, but I forgot they were ordering for us
today.  It's a homemade crunchwrap supreme."

It's not a particularly difficult recipe to make.  Just ground beef,
refried beans, a tostada, sliced tomatoes, lettuce, and sour creme -
all wrapped in a big tortilla in the shape of a pentagon and browned
in some butter.  But crunchwraps are always a hit - they make for good
leftovers in the fridge, and in this case, a great snack to pad a very
light salad lunch.

Finally in the afternoon, I returned to the training room for my
session.  Up until this point, I've been referring to it as a
/presentation/, but even that makes it sound like a much bigger deal
than it was.  It was more like taking a group of six people through a
slide deck.

In the past year or so of work, I've discovered that I have some
public speaking ticks and quirks.  I like to stand by a whiteboard and
fiddle with a dry erase marker, even if I don't plan on using it.  I
like to draw simple boxy diagrams for things that might not absolutely
need a diagram.  If the material is very technical, I like to tell
stories /from the trenches/ to make the material seem more exciting or
important.  Also in recent years, I started doing this thing where I
rhetorically ask /...right?/ to the room after every other sentence.
Not sure where that came from.

At quitting time, I jumped on a bus and headed home.  It was cool in
afternoon, and after being in and out of the stuffy training room all
day, it felt good to step outside and feel cold air on my face.  I
jumped on a bus and headed home.

Back at home, we had lots of mail on the counter - one box being
Rodney's six foam ninja swords.  We ordered these as a treat for
having a good attitude during our week staying at the temporary
house.  I carried two of the swords upstairs, and while Rodney was
still asleep in his bed, crept into his room.

"/RODNEY/," I hissed, crouched by his bed side, brandishing the foam
ninja swords.  "/YOU'RE SHREDDER/."  Rodney rolled over in his bed,
confused, blinking himself awake.

"No... YOU'RE SHREDDER," he replied, finally cracking a smile.  He
studied the swords, taking one into his hand.

"We got these for you, dude!" I said, handing him the other.  "We
thought you were such a champ during that week we moved out, so we
wanted to get you something special.  And you kept swinging all your
other toys around like swords, so we figured, you know, you probably
needed some swords and these ninja swords looked pretty cool."

Rodney rose to his feet and began swinging the swords around, then he
handed me one.  "Dada, you're shredder," he said, taking a fighting
stance.

"I'M SHREDDER," I growled, swinging and stabbing back.

After a quick sword fight, Rodney and I got our shoes on and jumped in
the car, headed for the grocery store.  As I rolled our shopping cart
up and down the narrow aisles of Jenny street, Rodney stalked
vigilantly behind me - his two ninja swords protruding out of the
waistband of his khakis.  He only briefly left his post to check out
the live lobster tank, which was just fine.

Back at home, I switched the TV from /The Office/ over to ninja
turtles.  Rodney stood in front of the TV in a fighting stance to take
it all in, and I got to cooking bacon, onion, and kale hash in the
kitchen.  Marissa joined me and chatted about the day.

After eating and putting Rodney to bed, I finished my chores, then
slipped upstairs to work on my new NAS build.  Yesterday I wanted to
perform a quick test boot with the new motherboard.  I cleared off my
desk, unfurled a long VGA cable, and hooked up the monitor and power
cables.  I plugged in the power cable.  A single pale, green light
illuminated on the board, but there was no beeping, nor video signal.

"That's pretty much the worst thing that can happen to a new
computer," I explained to Marissa on the couch later that night.
"That's a tough one to debug.  It could be... maybe six different
things causing it to not boot, but how do you know?  The screen is
black, it's not like it tells you what the problem is."

Before the failed boot, I actually considered taking a picture of my
workstation.  I was proud of how hands-on everything looked on my
clean desk, with the motherboard exposed and neatly wired up.  But all
that pride flew out the window when it failed to boot.

"I'm going to try again this weekend," I said to Marissa.  In the
spirit of licking my wounds from the failed mid week tech project, I
heated up a leftover crunch wrap supreme, dabbing it with hot sauce
and making my way to the TV.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Thursday.

*** 2020-03-06 Friday pizza, ninja turtles, and our european friends

Dear Journal,

/Goedemorgen, mijn vrienden!  Hoe gaat het vandag?/ I hope you're all
feeling good today.  It's Friday, and looking outside, there is plenty
to be thankful for.  I'm thankful that we're heading into a weekend,
which will yield lots of time to catch up on things around the house
and find some rest.

I'm feeling good today.  I decided to work from home today.  With the
coronavirus scare still building to a crescendo, the remote work
option has become very popular, even to the point where staying home
is encouraged.  And before climbing into bed last night, I stood for a
moment staring at my desk.  Comfortable, well-lit, a good pair of
headphones and a good microphone - I'm looking forward to spending the
work day here.

Yesterday was another busy work day where I was in and out of meeting
rooms... pretty much all day.  Some point between all the bouncing
back and forth, I joined my desk neighbor Julia back in our corner.
"We have... thirty minutes until the next meeting.  What are we even
supposed to do?" I griped.  Julia laughed.  "I know, right?" she
replied.  "It's not even enough time to start anything."

Around lunch time, I took advantage of another half hour micro break
to walk across the street to pick up my favorite sandwich from the
cheese shop.  As I usually do, I cut the sandwich in half, labeling,
bagging, and sticking the extra wedge in the fridge to save for
Marissa.  And as I'm writing this now, I realize that I had no further
plans for that half of sandwich.  We'll see if it's still there when I
return to work on Monday.

I finished our final meeting at 4, where are team remotely introduced
ourselves to a new engineering manager we hired.  My laptop was
practically depleted from all the running around I did away from my
desk, and when the meeting wrapped my battery was literally at 1%.  I
shut the lid and jumped on a bus homeward.

I wanted to get home a little early to get a jump on the pizza.  Last
night, I invited Rafael and Miguel, who were visiting from our Dublin
office, over for dinner.  When I walked in the door, Marissa was
already busily putting things away.  Rodney emerged from his room
cradling a hand full of Ninja Turtles action figures.  In the kitchen,
I got to making the pizza, beginning with the sauce.

Olive oil, garlic, oregano, red pepper flakes, and two cans of whole
peeled San Marzano tomatoes later, I left the sauce on the stove to
simmer and began making the dough.  Marissa joined me in the kitchen
to wash the lettuce for the salad.

"I admire how hosting people brings out the best in you," I said to
Marissa breaking the busy silence.  I chuckled, realizing my
spontaneous complement /could/ be received as a sleight.  What about
when we're not having people over?  Is she at her worst then?  The
road to offending your wife is usually paved with good intentions.

I kid. Marissa was gracious about it.  Touched - not offended.

"So what are their names again?" asked Marissa, straightening up the
pillows in the living room.

"Rafael and Miguel," I replied.  "They work in Dublin, but I think
they are both from Spain."

Marissa stood thinking for a minute.  "Man," she said.  "It's going to
be really difficult not referring to them as /Rafael/ and
/Michaelangelo/," laughed Marissa.

Our guests arrived at the front door.  Marissa greeted them as I
herded the dogs into the back yard.  Rodney handed them each a foam
sword on entry before they even had a chance to remove their quotes.
Rafael and Miguel rose to the occasion, joining Rodney in sword combat
before even learning his name, and you have to admire that easy going
attitude.

"This is Rodney.  Excuse him, he is really into Ninja Turtles right
now," I said.  Marissa's eyes lit up, as if she had a joke at the
ready.

"In fact," she said.  "We were sort of tempted to refer to you two as
Rafael and /Michaelangelo/."

"My name is Michaelangelo!" Miguel replied enthusiastically.  "Well,
really it's /Miguelangelo/."

"That's close enough!" I said.  How strange of a coincidence!  In the
past week, it feels like the theme of Ninja Turtles has descended on
my life.  I see it everywhere.

After Rodney's excitement subsided, we released the dogs from the
backyard into the house, and they incited a second wave of enthusiasm
in the living room.  "They'll calm down after five minutes," Marissa
clarified.

We ushered Rafael and Miguel into the living room, took their coats,
and hooked them up with some beer from a sampler pack Marissa had
picked up from Hy-Vee.  Miguel presented us some chocolate they had
brought from Ireland.

As the pizzas finished in the oven, we made our way back to the living
room and rested on the couch with TMNT playing quietly in the
background.  We got to chatting, covering the basics - how long
they've each been with the company, their role, and what got them
there.

Sitting down at the table with pizza and salad, I finally steered the
conversation into cultural curiosity.  "So I just have to say it," I
opened boisterously.  "That double kiss thing you guys do at the door
is pretty damn charming.  Do you just do that for the ladies, or was I
supposed to kiss you too?"  Rafael and Miguel blushed in
embarrassment, laughing.  "You know it gets awkward sometimes," said
Rafael.  "Sometimes you go to kiss someone twice, and they were only
expecting to kiss once."  He mimed the awkward situation, bobbing his
head around and widening his eyes.

"Ah, that's like your version of the handshake-fistbump debacle that
can happen sometimes," I laughed.  "I wonder what it would take to
bring that to the US?" I laughed.  "We could just start kissing
people, and I'm sure it would catch on eventually."

Rafael and Miguel spoke more to their unique perspective of Ireland,
originally emigrating from Spain.  "I almost gave up and moved back on
the first day," Miguel shared.  "I just arrived in Ireland.
Exhausted, carrying a hundred pounds of luggage.  I wanted to order a
big mac.  'Big Mac' I said, then they guy behind the counter asked me
a question, and I had no idea what he was saying."

"He got frustrated," continued Miguel.  "Then finally looked at me and
gestured."  Miguel silently used his hands to gesture 'big one' or
'little one'.  "How was I going to live there, find my way around,
attend meetings at work, when I couldn't even order a Big Mac?"

Rafael chimed in.  "I get frustrated in cabs.  I thought I could speak
English, but I can't understand cab drivers."

The conversation wandered from accents, to politics, to culture.  I
was a little fuzzy on Irish & UK relations, and at one point I had
completely forgotten that Spain got quite a bit of snow.  "Have you
guys ever made a snowball?" I asked condescendingly.  Rafael's eyes
widened.  "Alex!  Spain has snowy mountains!  Of course I've made a
snowball."

"We're grateful you guys visited with us," I said as our evening came
to a close.  "You see, as Americans we can now brag that we were
entertaining our /European friends/," I said twirling my hand to
emphasize the exotic appeal.  "Everyone's going to think we're so
cultured now."

We're grateful Rafael and Miguel spent time with us.  What a wonderful
evening.  Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Stay safe out there.
To our Zendesk friends visiting the Madison office, I hope you make it
home safely and remain healthy in the coming months.  Have a great
Friday, everyone!
