#+TITLE: Marketing on Reddit

Reddit is pretty much the only website I ever visit these days. Since
it is technically just a collection links to other websites, you could
say that I visit a lot of places on the web. This may be true, but it
all begins with reddit.com

Reddit is simply a place to post links. People who post need accounts,
and people with accounts can provide feedback in the form of positive
and negative votes. The highest voted links bubble to the top, and the
lowest fall to the bottom. When this is practiced on a huge scale,
what you get is a bustling website where at any given time, you can
view the top 100 or so coolest things on the Internet.

Additionally, the site provides a comment forum underneath each
link. The comments function the same way. They are voteable, and the
highest comments float to the top. Naturally, at any given time in a
thread the most poignant or funny comment in the whole batch is
readily available at the top.

Subreddits are interest-based groups on Reddit. They are moderated by
the users that created them (and anyone can create one). They decide
on what their group is all about, and people who share their interest
can subscribe to the subreddit.

But there are plenty of places you can read about how Reddit works. In
fact, I really should have just pointed you toward this video, which
does a much better job explaining things than I do.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tlI022aUWQQ" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+END_HTML

So there is your summary of Reddit. I can imagine that when the
website first got going in June of 2005, it was a pretty rad little
e-hole in the wall. But sadly, as it grew to be one of the most
visited active websites, some couldn't see past the website’s value as
just another marketing opportunity . I get nauseous whenever I come
across a blog post titled something like /The Secret to Getting TONS
of Web Traffic from Reddit/.

#+CAPTION: It’s kind of like Facebook, only with fewer icebucket challenge videos
[[./images/reddit-screenshot.png]]

It’s time to fight back, dear reader - and the only way I really know
how to combat misinformation is with education. Here are five things
to keep in mind to market on Reddit - and not be a dick.

* 1. You actually have to be a /redditor/

You have to make an account to post or comment on anything. There’s
not much to it. It’s your typical silly username + password + optional
email verification.

At this point in the Reddit immigration, idiot marketing guys choose a
name like StupidTechBlog_CheckForUpdates or ZING_marketing . To cite
Reddit’s sitewide rules,

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
It's perfectly fine to be a redditor with a website, it's not okay to
be a website with a reddit account.
#+END_QUOTE

I’d say calling your new user account ‘HipNewWebsite’ to advertise
your hip new website is not really a great start. Make a username that
you actually like.

I couldn’t tell you why, but there are a number of running jokes when
it comes to usernames. One trend dictates that they be (1) in all caps
(2) word delimited by underscores (3) depicting something horribly
gruesome or crass. I suppose it’s so we can witness these types of
wonderful exchanges:

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
~POTATO_IN_MY_BUTT~: Hey guys, I’m going through a hard time now. The
girl I have been in love with forever has just confessed to me that
she struggles with depression. How do I handle this?

~BEAR_CIRCUMCISER~: Don’t catch yourself letting your feelings affect
your counsel. It would probably be best to talk to one of her friends
just to make sure you stay honest and unbiased.

~CLOWN_PEDOPHILE~: BEAR_CIRCUMCISER is right. It sounds like she is in
no condition to begin a relationship anyway.
#+END_QUOTE

Isn’t it wonderful? I’ve read a totally illuminating breakdown on the
ENRON scandal from a guy who went by MIDGET_PUNCHER. Reading something
interesting and thoughtful from a twisted username never gets old.

* 2. Comment on things that don’t have to do with you

One of the first things a redditor will probably do when they come
across someone is look at their comment history - especially if you
are buying something from them or exchanging services.

Some users do nothing but piss people off. They leave horrible
degrading comments in the most innocent of threads. A good tipoff to
one of these guys is that their comment history is filled with nothing
but mean, banned, and poorly voted comments.

Likewise, if you have nothing in your comment history but comments
about your product, you are going to look by a spammer. Believe it or
not, a comment history like this is grounds for permanent banning from
the site. You have to mix things up a bit.

One of the easiest ways to get a decent comment history going is
through /r/AskReddit. It’s simply a subreddit for people to post
general questions in hopes of a ton of redditors answering in the
comments. For now, don’t try to get in on the 2000-3000 pointers on
the front page. Click the ‘new’ tab at the top to see the questions
that are just flowing in. They may be strange, poorly worded, and
hopeless when it comes to getting to the front page - but they usually
get at least a dozen comments. Answer as many as you want to. When you
get a reply, follow up. Be brief and ‘laid back’, since the stakes
aren’t really that high in the new section.

Sometimes while commenting it’s tempting to get in fights with
people. You may delude yourself into thinking you will look really
awesome if you win , but nobody really wins an Internet fight, do
they? Fights are petty and make for terrible threads. Let things roll
of your back. If someone zings you and their hurtful comment is
getting upvoted, it’s probably just that you are in the wrong
subreddit.

Use your brain. Don’t try to crack a joke in /r/AskScience. Don’t make
fun of Christians in /r/christianity. Just find a more appropriate
subreddit for your views, and your witty self will be ruling that
subreddit’s frontpage in no time.

* 3. Respect the moderators. Ask them before doing stuff

So you are getting pretty comfortable with Reddit at this point. You
are getting to the point where you want to make a post about a product
of yours.

Before you slap in with your shameless advertisement, message the
subreddit’s moderators . There is an envelope icon toward the right of
every subreddit. Clicking it initiates a private message to the people
that run that subreddit.

Politely explain who you are, what your product is, then ask if you
can post about it. If you cannot, a good moderator will guide you to a
more appropriate subreddit.

Each subreddit has rules too. They are kept in the sidebar. Most
subreddits even have bots that automatically remove links that don’t
follow rules, so make sure your review them before posting anything.

* 4. Don’t ‘pitch’. Just talk.

Finally. Here is the great secret to getting a ton of hits from
Reddit. Are you ready?

1. Have a great idea
2. Don't be a tool

The truth is that there is no secret. If you have a great idea, it
will do great there. If it doesn’t, take it to another
subreddit. Also, don’t be a tool. Nobody will give a snobbish pitch
the time of day.

You have probably heard of Imgur . It’s a massive image hosting
site. Not many people may know that it was created for reddit. The
site was announced by ~MrGrim~ in a simple post titled /My Gift to
Reddit: I created an image hosting service that doesn't suck. What do
you think?/

You can read the thread [[http://www.reddit.com/r/reddit.com/comments/7zlyd/my_gift_to_reddit_i_created_an_image_hosting][here]].

There was no marketing material or viral video. It was just some dude
who was fed up with all the other image hosts and set out to make one
that didn’t suck.

I guess this section should be relabeled Make sure your idea doesn’t
suck.

* Closing

If you are a vibrant, tan marketing guru who is trying to ‘crack
Reddit’, I would start with dampening that mohawk of yours. Not seeing
the site as a web traffic piñata is the secret, you cologne-covered
nimrod.

And to the rest of you - especially if you don’t have a marketing bone
in your body - there is still plenty for you on reddit . Come hang out
with MAKES_OUT_WITH_HORSES and others like him.

Goodnight, readership. Peace.
