#+TITLE: Pride
#+DATE: <2014-11-09 Sun>
#+SUBTITLE: Six pages into my high school journal and I have already proven Islam wrong.  Join me and high school Alex as we discuss pride.

May I help you to some more high school Alex ramblings?

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Which is the worst of sins?

The Koran says it’s stealing. Stealing a man’s right to life is
murder. Stealing a man’s right to truth is lying. Stealing a man’s
wife is adultery. Stealing a man’s property is stealing.

CS Lewis would say pride. Here is the predicament:
#+END_QUOTE

[[file:images/prideAndStealing.png]]

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
The greatest sin is that which breaks the greatest law. We know the
greatest law

- Love God
- Love Others

... wait a second...

To love God is the opposite of pride. To love your neighbor is the
opposite of stealing. CS Lewis was right!

PROOF

A person’s heart is shaped by their theology

Two options: you can follow God’s law or man’s law

Sin is putting man’s law above God’s (i.e., pride)

A prideful theology is one of self-love

QED: The greatest sin is pride
#+END_QUOTE

We are going to do our best to figure out what we just read. I had to
stare at some of these ‘pictures’ for several minutes before I could
start typing. I’m going to confess, I’m still not totally sure what
the hell I’m talking about.

As a teen, I spent a lot of time feeling guilty about my life. I’ll go
ahead and needlessly point out that this feeling was ridiculous, since
I really didn’t do a whole lot. Even though I did nothing but study,
eat, listen in class, and play video games for about an hour a night,
I carried around the same kind of guilt an ex con would.

If you couldn’t tell, pride was a big deal for me. Ironically, this
introspection passed breezily by all my arrogant pseudo-genius
ramblings and took serious issue with talking too much . One wise
crack in class - even if the teacher really did appreciate it -
triggered weeks of contrition and regret for my ‘foolishness’.

Also, I guess I read the Koran. Don’t worry, I always kept a Bible
nearby, almost as if I were playing with propane and it were a fire
exstinguisher. Don’t get me wrong - in between all the silly inflated
observations I made, I am grateful for those few and rare times I
actually learned something on my own. If my study of the Koran was
legitemate, I remember that Islam insists that the worst sin
imaginable is stealing (for the reasons I listed). That’s one way to
look at it, I guess.

Or not. I guess I just went on to prove it wrong somehow...

I also went on to prove CS Lewis right. Take that, Islam. I’m going to
assume that one of you has already took it upon yourselves to call
Christianity Today and tell them the good news. Now I can’t really say
any of these thoughts were original. Like most of my musings, it was
just a recycled lecture from my philosophy class minced with bizarre
wordplay.

I’d also like to point out my tendency to draw diagrams when diagrams
were not needed. I lived pretty much my whole life believing myself to
be a visual person. This is why my failure in Art class and affinity
for grammar class always perplexed me. But I was convinced I had great
ideas for diagrams. These ‘diagrams’ were just sentences with a few
lines connecting words. It turns out I don’t have a visual bone in my
body.

#+CAPTION: A gracious visual aid to help you through the ‘love my neighbor/hate my neighbor’ dilemma
[[file:images/prideDiagram.jpg]]

The greatest sin is pride . Sure, why not. I a tremendous need to pick
one type of sin and call it the greatest , especially if you are going
to go about defending it like I did.

Only on page 6. Consider your that your last appetizer, reader. Next
time, I dish out some real mind-blowing stuff.
