#+TITLE: Raising a Child Who Plays Video Games

I don’t know anything about raising children. I suspect that when I
have progeny of my own someday, I will learn just enough to get
by. But I wanted to first dispel your likely rage upon seeing a
twenty-three year old’s blog post titled “How to raise a child…” The
title of this blog is more just to get your attention. If you feel
manipulated into reading, then you are right. /I manipulated you,
Congressman/.

[[./images/frankunderwood.gif]]

* The Problem with where Parents Get Their Facts

Though I may not have any meaningful insight into raising a child who
plays video games, I will stand up for my experience in having been a
child who liked video games. Growing up in the world of Dateline NBC,
The View, and whatever that bizarre semi regular cabal that can be
seen on Fox News is, I have noticed one thing that has faithfully held
back my parents’ generation from judging the role of video games in a
child’s life fairly.

#+CAPTION: Fox and Friends: By paranoid baby boomers, for paranoid baby boomers
[[./images/foxandfriends.jpg]]

No one in my parents’ generation who speaks with authority actually
knows what they mean when they say “video games”.

And the reason why it’s so difficult to convince this generation of
this is because they really think they do know. All because they had
an Atari wired up to their living room TV and played Pong for about 20
minutes a week, they think they can, not only voice their opinion
concerning the effect of modern video games in society, but actually
lead the discussion.

The video games of this time are about as relevant to the discussion
as hop-scotch or “I-Spy” is. The fact is that video games are
completely different today. Anyone who gave up the gamer life before
the Super Nintendo effectively surrendered their right talk about how
they think Call of Duty is affecting our kids.

I know I am coming on a bit strong with the sweeping statements, but
they are rightfully sweeping. In all my years of playing video games,
not once have I come across a parent who appreciated the different
types of video games that are out there. Which leads into my first bit
of advice…

* 1. Know what kind of video games your kid play

When I said I have never met an adult who appreciated the difference
between video games, I wasn’t being totally truthful. I’ve met one
person. It was late in junior high, and after participating in
sufficient, cordial dinner table conversation with our extended
family, I escaped into the basement to play Xbox. I powered on the
machine and picked up on where I had last left off. I was playing
through one of the Splinter Cell games, which I was very fond of at
the time.

To my shame, just as my character was seconds from assasinating the
impetus of a dangerous revolution in Tblilisi, Georgia , I noticed my
Auntie Bonnie standing over my shoulder.

“I didn’t mean to sneak up you, Alex. Just watching – that’s all. What
are you doing?”

I offered her only as much detail as I thought she was interested
in. ”Just playing video games.” We sat there in silence for a few more
minutes. I pulled the trigger, sending a titanium round cleanly
through the skull of the villain I had been dutifully watching in my
long-ranged scope. Then, my aunt surprised me.

“So tell me about this character. Which country is this? Who sent you
there?”

Sheepish at first, I delved into a little more detail. ”Well… I’m Sam
Fischer. He’s been through a lot of wars, but he keeps getting pulled
from retirement because he’s the best of the best. The NSA sends him
into conflict areas because they know he can… make problems go away, I
guess. He’s like a machine – he just gets the job done, no matter how
stacked the situation is.”

Bonnie nodded in approval. ”That’s cool. Nice shot – that looked
pretty hard.” Bonnie stood and watched until Sam climbed into an
extraction helicopter.

#+CAPTION: I waited until she walked away to throw my celebratory grenades all over the civilian town.
[[./images/samfischer.jpg]]

I was impressed, and I think most parents could learn a valuable
lesson from Bonnie. The fact is that video games are very different,
and more so every day. If you don’t believe me, just take a guy who
plays Madden all day and send him on a little playdate with your
typical World of Warcraft guy, and just watch how much they like each
other (spoiler – the Madden guy asks the other what sports World of
Warcraft guy likes, and the World of Warcraft guy just stares at his
shoes until he walks away.

Video games are different. You can’t really talk about how “Video
Games” are affecting your kids until you know what kind of video games
they play – and how do you sleuth it out? Just as my Auntie Bonnie
did, you simply ask them.

Sure – letting your swarthy son talk about what level magii he is in
virtual-weirdo land may be the most boring five minutes of your life,
but just watch him light up at the prospect of his parents actually
caring about his interest. They may be boring, time-consuming, and
radically different from how you used to spend your time, but they are
still interests nonetheless.

How can this make your relationship between you and your kid better?
You build trust. Getting banned from your favorite hobby sucks, but
knowing that my parents took the time to actually familiarize
themselves with how I like to spend the time makes it easier to focus
on why I got punished in the first place. I know it’s not just a
“stupid game” to them. They know it means something because I got a
chance to explain why I like it.

* 2. Learn What your Kid is Getting Out of It

So you have stretched yourself and listened to your swarthy son talk
about his dungeon fortress. I hope you find it wasn’t as hard as you
expected, but it’s already time to level-up. The next step is to find
out what your child is getting out of video games.

This places even more importance on your understanding of how
different video games can be. Just as they are different, there is a
number of strengths getting honed in each type of video game – and
it’s your job to find out what your child’s game is honing exactly.

Some games have a lot of history. If you have ever walked in on your
kid playing a game, and he is just kind of scrolling through screens
and reading text, your kid is probably a bit of a history buff. In
these types of games, you generally play alone and travel around a
strange world, gathering an overwhelming amount of conversational
context from a number of different characters. Your success in the
game depends on your ability to distill a slew of conversations into
meaningful direction and purpose. That could almost make it on a
resume.

Some games require a lot of mastery and practice. Games that move
quickly and flash a lot of lights do so to try to distract the player
from the main task, strengthening their ability to focus through and
despite all the other “noise”. This is more important than you may
think – just ask your [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/02/070220012341.htm][friendly neighborhood brain surgeon.]]

Some games are just plain stupid. They are kind of repetitive, and
sort of lose meaning once people get way too good at them. But these
are my favorite kind of games. These games aren’t designed to demand
focus. They are more to facilitate conversation. They are ideal for
hanging out.

I have a lot of memories of playing Halo with friends. We would chase
each other around the same abandoned spaceship for hours, while the
conversation meandered in and out of the petty tomeaningful. It’s
amazing how one game can take you from just complaining about teachers
to discussing the challenges of growing up in a mega church, or being
a Christian guy in a public school.

I have to really commend my parents now. They had a very simple rule
that I enjoyed my whole life. Whenever I had friends over, we could
play video games for as long as we wanted… even until sun-up if we had
the stamina. Thinking about all the meaningful moments of confession
and confiding I had during those times, I couldn’t be more thankful
for that rule – and I would recommend you implement it in your home
too.

Video games facilitate a lot of great behaviors (as listed above), but
this is also your chance to see if they are affecting your child
negatively. God forbid you find out your kid loves games simply for
the violence – or expressing his frustration. God forbid your kid only
likes video games because they are so much easier than physical
activity, and everything else is boring. God forbid you discover
anything destructive that can lead to addictive habits, but rejoice in
the fact that because you made it this far, you now have the influence
and trust to fairly intervene. Like I said – knowing that a parent has
taken the time to understand my video game habit makes it much easier
to focus on their concerns when they come up.

* 3. Leave your Nostalgia in the shoebox - it's a crappy standard

Lastly, I would like to address nostalgia. I know it’s scary thinking
back on what video games meant to you and comparing them to the
strange beast they are today. You come from a time where video games
didn’t have the power to affect people’s behavior.

If I were to advise you to condescend on your child and reserve your
disappointment in how they don’t spend their time building tree houses
and playing board games like you did when you were young, I will warn
you that there would be nothing I could do to stop Benjamin Franklin
from laying a hand on your shoulder and being just as condescending to
you for participating in something as new-fangled and futuristic as a
manufactured board game. After all, when he was a child there was
nothing to do but sip brandy and read last month’s almanac.

Shortly after, I could see Galileo coming up behind Benny, expressing
his disappointment in Ben’s fulfillment in something as weird and
futuristic as an almanac. After all, when he was young, he found just
as much excitement in dissecting birds and carving his name on trees.

Still after, Aesop approaches Galileo and furnishes his disgust with
doing something as left-wing as dissecting birds. After all, when he
was a child, he was just as happy wrestling forty-year old men and
throwing sheep knuckles at his friends.

I could go on, but my point is that nostalgia is a horrible
standard. The way your kids spend their time will always seem less
valuable then the way you spent your time as a child, but you have to
keep that to yourself. That feeling is for you and you alone. You have
to let your kids have their time to.

Because in short time, we’ll be just as disgusted with the way our
kids spend their time. While we all wish our kids played regular video
games with hand-held controllers, our kids will be jumping on pads and
flailing their arms around in virtual-reality bliss. We feel the pain
too. We hate the idea of something as tacky as Wii Bowling becoming
the new standard, but it is our burden to bear just as we are yours to
bear.

* Closing

I’m not a parent, but I do love video games. Coming out of that
experience, I can sum it all up by saying you can never go wrong with
just talking to your kid about the kinds of things he or she thinks is
cool. Even if what they are into is really different from the things
you liked as a kid, you can’t let that stop you from appreciating
it. Hell – even sit down and play a game. Let your kid kick your butt
in whatever game they are playing. They’ll be beaming the rest of the
night – not because they won, mind you - but because you showed you
give a crap about the stuff they like.


#+CAPTION: And if you win, then congratulations – you transcend generations with how awesome you are at things. You can now gloat until your last lucid day on earth.
[[./images/happyvideogamefamily.jpg]]
