#+TITLE: Rockford
#+DATE: <2015-04-08 Wed>
#+SUBTITLE: Farewell, Rockford.  It was a pleasure being your citizen for two years.

Rockford used to seem like the edge of the world to me. As kids, we
only went all the way out here when Kelly managed to stutter her way
into the regional spelling bee. One year, we made a whole day of the
event, bringing packed lunches and everything we would need to spend
the entire day in Rockford for the spelling tournament. Kelly was
eliminated on the worst word - /premier/.

Don't feel too bad, Kelly. I actually had to look up the spelling just
now.

I'm nearing the end of my stay in Rockford, and as the moving date is
getting closer, I'm seeing now that it is probably going to be a lot
harder to bid farewell to the edge of the world than I had
anticipated. I had a wonderful time here. Rockford is a unique place.

My imminent departure got me thinking about some of my favorite spots
in Rockford.

* Beacon Hill

[[file:images/beaconhill.jpg]]

I've lived about two years in Beacon Hill apartments. Around when I
was moving in, it was rumored that there was a stabbing the week
before. As a result, people at work began to refer to it
affectionately as /stabby heights/. Sorry to let you all down, but I
didn't witness a single stabbing.

The scariest it got for me was on a hot summer night while I was
taking out the trash. Before I tossed the bag into the dumpster, two
beady little eyes caught my attention. I put down the bag and focused
on the little glimmer in the darkness. Slowly, a little face formed
around the dark, round, unblinking eyes. I recoiled in fear. For some
reason, my first thought was /Oh my gosh, there is a kid hanging out
in this dumpster/.

"Hey - what are you doing in there! Get out of there!." The kid just
sat there motionless. The stirring of his jaw revealed he was chewing
something.

"Stop eating the trash! It's not good for you!" I shouted. No response
from the dark stranger. I took out my phone, remembering I had a
flashlight app.

With my flashlight out, I could see the face belonged to a raccoon. I
had been talking to a raccoon. It's a shame there were no
witnesses. I'm sure any bystander would have been amused hearing me
shout "Stop eating garbage, it's not good for you!' at a raccoon in
the dumpster.

But like I said, as far as violent and dangerous encounters, it could
have gotten much worse than a self-righteous scolding of a woodland
creature by my dumpster. I had a great time living in Beacon Hill. The
staff was warm, cordial, and always prompt. My neighbors were great
people too.

* Blackhawk Forest Preserve

[[file:images/blackhawk.jpg]]

Rockford will always be the town where I discovered my ability to get
in shape. Most of the sweat and tears were shed on the treadmill in
the back corner of the Planet Fitness on Alpine Road, but occasionally
my wife would convince me to go for a jog outside.

I hate running outside, but there was plenty of beautiful scenery at
the Blackhawk Forest Preserve to take my mind off my own exercise
preferences. Someone once aptly described it to me as where the Calvin
and Hobbes comics really should have taken place.

I had heard about an interesting phone app that could spice up the
outdoor running I dreaded. Zombie Run turned your run into an
interactive audio book where you spent the duration of your workout
surviving as a courier in a zombie apocalypse. It was pretty
immersive, incorporating your speed, direction, and music play list
into the experience.

I tried it out. Marissa wanted to run at a more casual pace, so we
split up. The plan was that I would turn back after a mile and a half,
making it a three mile run that would end at the car.

I must have gotten a little distracted by my zombie audio book. The
adrenaline of running for my life had carried me five miles to where
the trail ended. Mystified and exhausted, I paced around the woods for
a few minutes wondering how I would make it back before sunset. Making
matters worse, I had the only set of car keys, so my wife was to be
stranded until I returned.

My wife had to call the police. A squad car found me huddled up in
some playground equipment. My wife had taken shelter from the wind in
a Port-o-potty.

* Five Forks

[[file:images/fiveforks.jpg]]

Five Forks is our favorite restaurant in Rockford. Don't let the tiny
plates and the emphasis on lunch fool you. It's filling - and sure to
put you in a good food coma.

When the recent tornados passed through Rockford, I didn't know it was
such a big deal. We were supposed to celebrate my wife's birthday that
night, and I had already gotten my dress clothes on. My wife,
nervously watching the radar, recommended we stayed home.

Stay home? Did I put on uncomfortable dress pants for nothing? I don't
think so. I wasn't having that at all. So I was the reason we stupidly
ventured out in a tornado hail storm to eat shrimp toast and duck.

The tornado missed us, but my wife still teases me about how cavalier
this restaurant made me feel during one of the worst tornados Rockford
has ever experienced.

Seriously, try this place out - but make sure hell isn't raining from
the sky first.

* Jo-Jo's Pizza and Pub

[[file:images/jojo.jpg]]

This is where Marissa works, but before my wife made her way behind
the bar, it was our favorite place to hang out.

Jo-Jo's is a bar that, from the outside, seems surgically attached to
a laundromat. Inside, it's a comfortable, personal paradise. My wife
and I have had the best talks over Joe's deep dish pizza. The hot
wings are good too, but I have a hard time talking while eating those.

I've told a few people this before, but I really think everyone could
use a good bar. I'm blown away by how many people I've met at Jo-Jo's
during the short time Marissa has worked there compared to the two
years I've been living in Rockford.

* Closing

We had some good times in Rockford. I recently celebrated with my work
friends at Jo-Jo's, and when I had finally managed to pull the axe out
of  my forehead  the following  day, I  found a  text from  one of  my
co-workers. I think it's brilliant,  so I'm going to completely hijack
it.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
As the boy scout saying goes, leave the campsite in better condition
than you found it. I'm a better person for having known you.
#+END_QUOTE

I was deeply humbled, and for the first time it caused me to reflect
on the affect I had on Rockford. I was overcome with the feeling that
the people of Rockford gave me so much more than I ever thought to
give back. Albeit a little late in our stay, I really hope I have
somehow left it better than I had found it. Not just the city either -
but the people. As we move to Madison in about a month, I'm encouraged
to get another chance with another campsite.

Rockford, you certainly left me better than you had found me. Thanks
for the good times.
