#+TITLE: Seinfeld
#+DESCRIPTION: The early seasons of Seinfeld - are these episodes evidence of a Sitcom finding its stride, or a prologue to the lives of the four people that surrendered to a life about nothing?
#+DATE: <2015-09-09 Wed>

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gEsUgU9t_Ps"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

Do you recognize this song?

It's the original theme song of the TV show Seinfeld . Before the show
hit its comfortable stride in the early summer of 1991, there was a
five episode pilot season in the summer of 1989. The theme in the
above video was replaced by the infinitely more famous synth and bass
riff composed by Jonathan Wolff.

I grew up owning the entire catalog on DVD. No matter what I was
doing, there was always a Seinfeld episode playing in the background
to soak up the silence. I preferred episodes from the meatier range of
the sitcom. Somewhere in the show's time line where all the characters
had hit their stride, but still had not jumped the shark.

The pilot episode is entitled The Seinfeld Chronicles - a departure
from the usual "The SOMETHING" all other episodes followed. In the
pilot, Jerry has anxiety about a visiting female friend who is giving
off mixed signals. George and Kramer do their best in advising Jerry,
but ultimately all his efforts are futile when she casually informs
him that she is engaged.

Though the plot has familiar elements, the characters in the pilot are
barely recognizable. George is witty and dignified, Kramer is a timid
shut-in, and Elaine is absent from the episode all together.

The unfamiliarity of this episode along with the other four in the
first season are what drove me away from them. But I had a thought the
other day - perhaps the first season of Seinfeld is intended to be
more of a prologue than an opening act. Perhaps it's supposed to feel
very different from the show.

This thought struck me - each person of the Seinfeld cast seems normal
in the first season. The first season is a prologue in which we
witness Jerry, George, Kramer, and Elaine reach a breaking point that
leads them to a hilariously superficial and cynical take on life.

* George

  George Costanza is the American loser. He has no dignity, sense of
  purpose, or self-worth. He is the man that hires a contractor to
  modify his work desk to better accommodate secret naps in his
  office.

  The George Costanza we hold dear wouldn't come close to recognize
  the man portrayed in The Seinfeld Chronicles . Let's remain on the
  surface for a bit and just examine his transformation in appearance.

  This is the George you probably think of.

  [[./images/georgeAfter.jpg]]

  This is George in his first appearance of the show.

  [[./images/georgeBefore.jpg]]

  Though George exhibits some eccentricity, he is presentable and
  well-groomed. His hair is proudly combed, even after work hours in a
  crummy laundromat.

  The dialog follows this trend. Later in the show, we rely on George
  for outbursts. He grunts, sweats, blushes, and screams. In the
  pilot, we find a suave, witty companion fit to converse with a
  comedian and meet him on his level. Much different from the George
  who is dim and an admitted failure with understanding women, this
  George readily offers Jerry advice on understanding their
  nuances. Here is a snippet of their conversation.

  #+BEGIN_QUOTE
  GEORGE: So, ya know, she calls and says she wants to go out with you
  tomorrow night? God bless! Devil you!

  JERRY: Yeah, well...not exactly. I mean, she said, you know, she
  called this morning and said she had to come in for a seminar and
  maybe we'll get together.

  GEORGE: [whistles disapproving] Ho ho ho, "Had to"? "Had to come
  in"?

  JERRY: Yeah, but...

  GEORGE: "Had to come in" and "maybe we'll get together"? "Had to"
  and "Maybe"?

  JERRY: Yeah!

  GEORGE: No...no...no, I hate to tell you this: you're not gonna see
  this woman.

  JERRY: [indignant] What, are you serious...why, why did she call?

  GEORGE: How do I know, maybe, ya know, maybe she wanted to be
  polite.

  JERRY: To be polite? You are insane!

  GEORGE: All right, all right, I didn't want to tell you this, you
  wanna know why she called you?

  JERRY: Yes!

  GEORGE: You're a back-up, you're a second-line, a just-in-case, a
  B-plan of contingency!
#+END_QUOTE

This George is confident in his mastery of women - a far fling from
the George who desperately resorted to doing the opposite of his
instincts to get women.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cKUvKE3bQlY"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

First season George was a hard worker. In the first episode, Kramer
aimlessly asks George about his profession. George engages him
seriously about the real estate market.

George is also remarkably successful. In /The Stock Tip/ , George
stands behind his investment in a business idea - even when Jerry
pulls out. He reaps the profit as the idea takes off. The episode ends
with George victoriously puffing on a cigar in the cafe and treating
everyone to dinner.

So what broke this vibrant, hard-working, insightful George Costanza?
Things begin to fall apart in the second season as George finds
himself fighting against his sexist boss for his dignity. In The
Revenge , George enlists the help of Elaine to humiliate him by
'slipping him a mickey' at an office party. Just as the boss publicly
redeems George with accolades, he sips the poison and keels
over. George is fired.

George shares a dark moment with Jerry where he pitifully muses on
what little options he has left to pursue. I believe this is George's
breaking point. He realizes that no matter how much he cares about
things, he ultimately has no control over what happens. Getting hired,
fired, and promoted honestly has nothing to do with work
ethic. Meeting smart, attractive women has nothing to do with his
insight. And as he swallows that bitter pill while sitting on Jerry's
apartment floor, he evolves into the bitter, neurotic friend that is
George Costanza.

* Kramer

Kramer is the wild card - the bizarre neighbor that we can rely on to
barge into Jerry's apartment with a fresh scheme plucked from the
disturbed machinations of his metropolis fried brain. He is perhaps
known best for the way he barges into Jerry's apartment.

Want to see my favorite Kramer entrance?

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/m2qdKds2a78"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

Yes - you watched that right. Kramer doesn't burst into the room ready
to spout off a new scheme. Kramer /knocks/, then timidly asks "Are you
up?", then slips in quietly. He still raids Jerry's fridge for
leftovers, but he is much more mysterious about it. This is a very
different Kramer.

As he and Jerry shoot the breeze, Jerry mentions in passing that
Kramer hasn't left the apartment in years. Kramer is a shut-in. Later
in the episode when he and George are in the same room, it is clear
that they barely know each other. He even wonders with George if he
should get into the real estate game - and not in the typical
far-fetched Kramer way. He actually seriously considers it - as if he
is short on money.

In the episode /The Statue/, Jerry, George, and Elaine struggle to
confront a graduate student about a cherished statue that he swiped
from Jerry's apartment while cleaning it. Jerry is uncomfortable doing
anything without the police, Elaine fears upsetting her relationship
with the man's lover as a business client, and George is useless.

Meanwhile, Kramer sits alone staring into the fourth wall,
occasionally breaking the dialog to mutter to himself, I'm not happy
about this. We should just get him . This is Kramer's breaking
point. I like to imagine he is wrapping his head around the astounding
truth that he is the only one there with nothing to lose. He doesn't
know anyone. He has no money. He has no connections or valued
relationships. He is free to do anything.

Kramer slips out of the apartment and proceeds to do the most Kramer
thing of all. He impersonates an FBI agent and fast talks the man into
giving up the statue.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tk3DjXKdVcY"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

This is Kramer's transformation. Perhaps the realization that he has
nothing to lose in life gives him the courage to develop into the
extroverted, entrepreneurial, free-spirited maniac that we still love
today.

* Elaine

Elaine is charming, intelligent, and quick to see through anyone's
bullshit. Her brutal honesty makes her a turn-key fitting companion of
Jerry, George, and Cosmo. Though she has many companions over the
show's time line, she remains totally self-sufficient. She bounces
back quickly from breakups, as she is usually the one breaking things
off.

However, there was one relationship she evidently had a difficult time
getting over. In /The Stake Out/ Elaine dated Jerry. They wrestle with
the awkward reality of remaining friends after their romantic
involvement. Jerry feels so awkward about the whole thing that he
refuses to ask Elaine about one of her friends he found attractive,
opting instead to stake out her building.

Jerry and Elaine's tip toeing around their feelings for one another
are the closest thing to a real human moment in Seinfeld. But slowly
her human side begins to form calluses. In The Ex Girlfriend , Elaine
wrestles with her neighbor's sudden aversion to greetings in the
hallway. In The Pony Remark , Elaine loses her apartment to Jerry's
obnoxious cousin Jeffery due to an old man's hearing
impairment. Despite her talent and likability, Elaine is constantly
met with other people's incompetence and indifference. Elaine's
transforms into a cynical, capable woman who goes into every human
interaction expecting to be disappointed - whether she is dating a
moronic car mechanic or trying to avoid indulging everyone's
fascination with /The English Patient/.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/B57bOy2Dzjg"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

* Jerry

Jerry undergoes absolutely no character development. He is static and
unchanging. This was no mistake. I believe Jerry was intentionally
left in tact to be the mocking observer of the Seinfeld world. He
contributes nothing, demands nothing, and despite his exposure as a
comedian he leaves little impression on the women he dates. He is
ysimply a human version of bugs bunny wandering around in a world
composed of his own stand up material.

He even flaunts his own plot immunity in the show. In /The Opposite/,
Jerry remarks that everything always works out for him. Despite how
dynamically the people around him succeed and fail, Jerry always
breaks even without trying.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"> <iframe
width="560" height="315" class="embed-responsive-item"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/prvm5ZFPIrE"> </iframe> </div>
#+END_HTML

To borrow from Kramer's unintentionally profound line in /The Opera/

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
You're the nucleus, the straw that stirs the drink. You're the Miana!
#+END_QUOTE

But while his importance to the balance of the group is vital, Jerry
is valueless as a person. Next time you are watching, take note of how
many times a character will attempt to share their issues with Jerry,
then give up in frustration under his low calorie mockery.

* Closing

So why is Seinfeld so fun to watch? Is it simply the comedy?

Or does it meet us in a darker place. Do we secretly acknowledge that
we indeed have no control over the world. That we may really have
nothing to lose. That no matter how capable we are in our own life,
some schmuck will tumble along to disappoint us.

Perhaps a show about nothing comforts us in the face of a life that
feels like it is about nothing. Maybe there is a little George,
Elaine, and Kramer budding inside of each person stuck in traffic or
working a thankless job and a Jerry that can't help but sit back and
heckle.

-----

*Edit:* some much smarter people on [[https://www.reddit.com/r/FanTheories/comments/3ke3t5/seinfeld_each_character_was_relatively_normal_in/][reddit]] helped me put together this
 summary of each character's epiphany

- George: we can control /nothing/
- Kramer: we have /nothing/ to lose
- Elaine: we can depend on others for /nothing/
- Jerry: /nothing/ we do really matters

A show about /nothing/ indeed.
