#+TITLE: Skateboarding

I have a dark secret for which I am slowly building the courage to
shed light on. I am trying to become a skateboarder.

It fulfills a need of mine for physical activity – a need which is
limited by my shyness. I ought to be active – I know that – especially
working a desk job where the only included cardio is plugging in my
headphones (and just wait until I upgrade to a wireless set… soon I
can be motionless in the purest sense). But I’m not really the kind of
guy that can roll up to any random basketball court, slip on a “Gold’s
Gym” tank top, and grunt “Yo! Pass the rock.” Likewise, I won’t be
parking at a health club to get my pump on in front of a bunch of
sweaty strangers. On a more serious level, I’m a bit of an introvert,
so there are not a lot of options for physical activity. Off the top
of the dome, I can think of skateboarding, bowling, carnival games,
and running from the government.

#+CAPTION: Jason Bourne is the perfect example of how you can be physically active without any meaningful interpersonal interaction - if you do not count throwing passports and pieces of glass at people
[[file:images/mattdamon.jpg]]

I’ve spent my first few months crawling parking lots and baseball
dugouts, dipping out when someone with a dog walks by for shame that a
sociological other will externalize my private hobby before I am ready
too. I’ll take the board out into daylight when I’m ready, thank you.

I’m typically modest, but it didn’t take me long to master every
obstacle offered by the endless flat space of a Target parking lot. I
was ready to graduate to the skate park.

#+CAPTION: It is clean now, but in time it will be covered in my blood.
[[file:images/bowl.jpg]]

This is the Olympic skate park in Schaumburg. The park is not lit, so
I usually go during the narrow time frame between kids going home for
dinner and the nearby softball field finally shutting their lights off
for the night. Sometimes I would have to stall if there were people
that hung around. I just played Minion Rush on my phone until I got
the place to myself.

Tonight, I was running out of time. There were two stragglers, and
from a distance I could tell they were pretty good. I made a
decision. At least they were hucking on the side of the park opposite
to my ledge. See, the park is pretty big, but I usually just hang out
by a little stumpy ledge. There, I practice the same line. I jump on
the board, kick three times, then try to ollie up on the ledge. Most
times I lose my board and slam my head on the pavement. Sometimes, I
make it up, but panic as the ledge shortly drops off again. This is
when I proceed to lose my board and slam on the pavement –
again. Sometimes, when I am really on fire, I can wipe out before even
reaching the ledge.

For twenty minutes, we stayed out of each other’s way. But on one
attempt, he board flung out from my feet. I squealed as the deck
sailed into another skater. He scooped up my board and walked slowly
over to me.

If I had a can of mace, I would have uncapped it. If I had brass
knuckles, I would probably be too embarrassed to do anything with
them. The fella handed me my board and asked, “So are you new at
skating.”

Yes. I am so new at skating. This helmet also doesn’t fit me, and I
ordered everything you see here on Amazon.

“Let me show you what you are doing wrong.”

The dude jumped on his board and demonstrated a crystalline
ollie. After a few more pointers, we got to talking. Learning they
were only sixteen made me embarrassed at how self-conscious I was
around them. The guys, Trevell and Tony, told me not to worry – that
no one who skates at the Olympic is a huge tool to newbies. They were
nice kids, and, thanks to my pleasant experience, I am going to keep
at it. I promise to post a GIF of me jumping onto that eight inch
ledge once I nail it.

Thanks, you guys. And if you are reading, Trevell, I stand by my
offer. Bring your chemistry homework next time, and I will show you
how I can really shred.
