#+TITLE: The Miss-Steak

So I know I was supposed to write about privacy on the
Internet. That’s what I promised this week.

But I lost interest at this point. That’s what usually happens when I
get a full seven hours a sleep. I wake up with a totally new positive
outlook on things. To the angry mob of YouTubers pining for a
televised murder of a Google executive, my advice to you is to do the
same. Just sleep off the disappointment. By the time you wake up,
Google will be as out-of-touch with real people as Microsoft is, and
you’ll feel a lot better.

And truth be told, I was really only writing it for one person I had
in mind. Well rather than boring you all with a broad sea of text to
skim, how about we move on with our lives.

And to you, my Google-loving heel, you see me after class ;)

On to something different. This week is a recipe.

* You have to twitch before you can crawl

If you have ever spent any time with my family, you should know that
my parents love to cook. It’s not just mac ‘n chees ‘n tots ‘n
casserole either – I’m talking real gourmet stuff. In our house
growing up, cedar plank salmon was a Thursday. Additionally, our spice
cabinet was bigger than my book shelf, I think.

All that to say, now responsible for feeding myself, I have absolutely
no idea what I am doing. Launching into Apartment life, in this
regard, was like stepping off a shuttle after a long stint in space. I
felt throbbing in muscles that had been long-lost to atrophe. For the
first time in my life, the pang of hunger wasn’t going to be followed
by a crab cake. I grew up without ever paying attention to anything. I
knew nothing of what happened before things hit the plate. I no longer
had an ambassador between me and Trader Joe’s. I was useless.

Given my handicap, I feel I have a unique perspective on cooking. I
decided to learn brutally. Feed yourself with what you know, and then
let your stomach tell you what to make next. In other words, learn to
twitch before you learn to crawl (and the misquote of the popular
maxim was intentional, because what I know now hardly deserves to be
compared to crawling).

It’s been a painful first few weeks living off of Ramen, oven pizza,
and sunflower seeds, but I think my plan is working. My meals are
slowly gaining some respectable complexity, all driven behind my
adopted mantra, “There is no ignorance in discovery“. In other words,
I’m trying not to rely on other people so much for recipes and
advice. If something is really a bad idea, then it will be
obvious. After all, I’m the one who has to choke it down. I’m trying
to let the ideas do the talking.

Now, I am proud to present to you my first meal. To give tribute to
it’s rich lineage of soggy prototypes and kitchen meta-fires, I call
it the “Miss-Steak”.

* Building the Miss-Steak

** The Ingredients

#+CAPTION: The Cheapest steaks you can find
[[file:images/cheapsteaks.jpg]]

#+CAPTION: Random Vegetables
[[file:images/randomvegetables.jpg]]

#+CAPTION: Pretty much everything out of your "sprinkles" cabinet
[[file:images/sprinklescabinet.jpg]]

Butter, Olive Oil (extra virgin... or not... whatever)...

#+CAPTION: Whatever this thing is. It’s ninety pounds, impossible to clean, and it scares the hell out of raw meat
[[file:images/skillet.jpg]]

** Steps

Now that the gang’s all assembled, it’s time to make a grown man’s
meal. Go ahead and rip open the steaks. Don’t worry about the smell –
we’re hopefully going to fix that. For less than three bucks per
steak, I’m just assuming they’re doing the bear minimum to make this
thing technically edible.

Now slap it down on a plate. This is where you are going to need all
the sprinkly stuff out of your cabinet. I take a minute to shake
everything onto each steak, following one general rule: the amount of
spice you use from the container should be governed by the size of the
container itself. For example, I have no idea what cumin is, but
because the container is smaller than a tic-tac box, I’m going to
treat it like it’s really precious (the spice gets bonus points for
counter-intuitive spelling too).

Get it nice and… powdery… after all the spice is applied (more
specifically, salt, garlic salt, pepper, cumin, chile powder, and
basil), give the meat a nice, aggressive rubdown. I picture it like
I’m a medic from Saving Private Ryan trying to pinch off a spurting
artery.

#+CAPTION: If you’d like to add to the analogy, you can bark coordinates over your shoulder, and wonder out loud “Where the hell is my airstrike?”
[[file:images/rubbingmeat.jpg]]

Next, you want to let the meat sit and get down to room
temperature. This usually happens in the time frame of two grand theft
auto shooting sprees. When it’s ready to go, drop your enormous red
salvaged-from-a-helicopter-cockpit griddle-pan onto the stove, add a
little oil, and start heating.

While that’s getting happy, I cut the vegetables. I don’t have any
insight into how to cut vegetables. It kind of just devolves into
savage ripping and tearing. If I have a hard time getting the stems
off, I might even cry a little.

By now, your freak-griddle should be ready to bring the pain. Grab the
steak and drop it across the merciless grooves.

[[file:images/layingmeat.jpg]]

Do it quick, because hell soon-after flies forth from the grill. I
swear those drops of oil go for the face like a heat-seeking
missile. Seriously, it makes a big mess. My first instinct was to grab
a spatula and move it around, but you just need to let the metal and
the meat work out their differences. I should mention that if you ever
feel the need to do something with your hands (like if someone is
watching you cook, and you feel you would lose their trust if they saw
your arms at your side while flames and hot oil lick the air, put a
little pot of water on the stove and stir it occasionally).

Now that the steak is on the heat, don’t touch it for another three
minutes. The impression I get with steak is that it is really
important that you only flip steak once. Take the opportunity to get
the vegetables going. If the butter turns brown, and then hisses at
you, that means you burned it.

[[file:images/dumpingveggies.jpg]]

If someone is watching you do this over your shoulder, just calmly
dump the refuse in the sink and prelude your next attempt with “… now
that the pan is deglazed…” Do not offer an explanation for what
“deglazed” means, because we don’t know. It was just meant to disarm
the situation.

It might be time to turn the steak over. I really don’t know when. I
know how to fake it though – poke at it, look at it from an angle,
hold your thumb up to it, count out loud in your head… just do
something to make it look like you are being a decisive chef. The nice
thing about beef is that, no matter when you stop cooking it, there is
someone on the planet that prefers to eat it like that.

If you turned at the right time, the bottom of the steak is going to
be golden brown, crispy, juicy, and tread with defined grill marks. It
kind of reminds me of the base of my toilet right now, come to think
of it.

[[file:images/grillingmeat.jpg]]

Do the same thing for the other side. You would have to, wouldn’t you?
That’s not even cooking… that’s just the principles of symmetry.

All throughout, give the veggies a poke every now and then – half for
just the sake of keeping your hands busy. When in doubt, just add more
butter. Butter saves most bad inventions in the kitchen. I suspect
even a cup of broken glass, if well-buttered, wouldn’t be the worst
thing in the world for at least the first few bites.

At this point, both the veggies and the steak should be nearing
completion. Before you pack them away, go shut your smoke detector
off. Don’t be alarmed if you didn’t hear it – it’s probably just the
fumes from your poorly ventilated apartment stove getting to your
head.

Lastly, throw a couple of slices of bread on the griddle where the
steak last left off. Anything with those grill lines brazed on it, no
matter how meaningless and last minute they are, taste more delicious
than without.

#+CAPTION: Now this is definitely going to set off the smoke detector. Maybe even the carbon monoxide detector if you are using the right kind of bread.
[[file:images/hotbread.jpg]]

When you are all done, turn everything off and scrap the whole greasy
vegetable-meat mess onto one delicious sandwich, and optionally serve
alongside some effeminate sweet potato fries (just to counteract all
the manliness).

#+CAPTION: Oh... forgot the cheese. But you were going to do that anyway. You probably just put cheese on everything... you disgust me.
[[file:images/forgotthecheese.jpg]]

And there is the biggest Miss-Steak of your life. If I am unknowingly
poisoning myself with my ad hoc combination of ingredients, please let
me know. I eat this meal a lot. But until I’m corrected, let whatever
sandwich that doesn’t kill me, in the end, make me stronger. Have a
great week, and eat to survive.
