#+TITLE: The Top 5 Ways That My Corgi Has Taught Me How to Be a Better Person
#+AUTHOR: Marissa Recker

Imagine yourself, sitting down for dinner with your family in a
peaceful Rochester suburb, when you hear a knock. You reluctantly get
up and answer the door, to see your neighbor, a short, smiley, frizzy
haired 12 year old girl. After exchanging greetings, she says, “Can I
walk your dog for you?”. This dog crazy girl was me, almost 10 years
ago. I remember being so desperate to be around a dog that I used to
knock on my neighbors doors and ask them if I could walk their
dogs. Our neighbors were thrilled to have a free dog walker!

For as long as I can remember I have been obsessed with dogs. My
parents weren’t huge dog people, so my begging got me as far as a
goldfish, a hamster, and some bunnies. As I grew up, my parents always
said, “when you get your own place you can get yourself a dog”. When I
went to college, my dream of a four legged companion did not go away
in the slightest. In Wheaton there was a place called “the Puppy
Store” (aka heaven). You walked into the store and there are literally
tons of puppies that you could play with in a little boxed off part of
the room. When Alex and I were dating this was one of our favorite
date spots. We even got on a first name basis with some of the
employees.

[[./images/puppyStore.png]]

Fast forward to this past October, Alex and I were engaged, he had
moved into an apartment, and our mutual desire for a puppy became
real. We had decided that a Pembroke Welsh Corgi was the right breed
for us. I began calling breeders in Illinois and we had developed a
relationship with one couple in particular and traveled to Western
Illinois to be interviewed as potential corgi parents. We passed the
test and many months and visits later, we were driving home with our
first Corgi puppy, Oliver.

[[./images/oliverDeck.png]]

Owning a dog has been one of the most rewarding and joy filled
experiences of my life. But what I didn’t expect from owning Ollie,
was that he would teach me just as much as I thought I was teaching
him, if not more. Here are the five most significant things that
Oliver has taught me over the past few months.

* 1. Patience

I anticipated that having a puppy would challenge my
patience. Cleaning up around a hundred potty accidents over the months
gets pretty old pretty quick. But what I learned was that when my
patience ran out, it was more of a reflection of a flaw with myself
than with my dog. Ollie was not purposefully trying to frustrate
me. He simply had not grasped the concept that it wasn’t okay to go to
the bathroom inside. The moments when I would be frustrated cleaning
up Ollie’s accidents were more due to my inability to be patient with
my dogs learning process than an accurate reflection of my dogs desire
to please me. I then identified that my level of patience should be
more dependent on my dogs’ intent than his actions. I would rather
focus on my dogs’ thinking process that foreshadowed his actions, than
focus on his actions without identifying his thought process. I think
that this system can be applied to other areas of life also. For
example, if someone does something that bothers you but clearly didn’t
intend to bother you, shouldn’t your response to them be different
than if they had purposefully tried to bother you? Now i’m not saying
that actions shouldn’t be disciplined, but i’m saying that the thought
behind the actions should be just as important as the actual action.

* 2. The value of a mutual hobby with your spouse.

When Alex and I were in pre-marital counseling, our counselor had at
one point talked about the value of identifying and developing mutual
hobbies together. I think that Alex and I never saw raising a dog as a
“hobby” necessarily, but now taking care of, training, and being with
Ollie is one of our favorite mutual hobbies. There have been so many
moments where Ollie has had us both laughing till we were crying. I
truly think that having Ollie has made Alex and I grow closer together
than if we didn’t have a dog. Owning a dog together has been a blast!

* 3. You learn that you may be good at things you have never previously tried.

Alex and I took Ollie to puppy classes at a local center here in
Rockford for eight weeks. There were anywhere from five to ten puppies
all learning different tasks and going through different
obstacles. Many of these obstacles where various agility course
objects such as tunnels, weaves, jumps, dog walks etc. Over our eight
weeks with Ollie, he could not get enough of the agility equipment. He
absolutely loved every single obstacle. From seeing how much Ollie
loved doing agility, Alex and I decided to continue to train him to do
agility work. Agility only works with the dog and one owner as the
handler, so I decided to be Ollie’s agility handler and I cannot tell
you how fun it is to run through an obstacle course with your
dog. Working as unit to go through a course is an absolute blast and
an amazing way to bond with your dog. I never would have thought that
I would enjoy being an agility handler, but it is definitely one of my
new favorite things!

* 4. How to have a better situational perspective.

Over the past few months I have been applying to Physical Therapy
schools all over the country. The odds of getting into physical
therapy school right now is less than 10% per school. The shift in
medicine to being more preventative and restorative has caused PT to
be a more highlighted part of the healing process. Because of this,
schools are getting more and more competitive due to the hundreds of
applicants each school gets for about 30-50 spots. So, understanding
this, I have been receiving rejection letters from schools. This past
week when I opened a rejection letter I sat there for a bit, a little
sad, and Ollie came up to me and started to lick my cheek. I truly
think that he was trying to tell me that everything will be
okay. After that moment I started to think about how regardless of
what happens, I have so much joy in my life already as a wife and
corgi mama. Even though I would love to get into PT school, I know
that my happiness does not depend on getting into PT school.

* 5. What unconditional love looks like.

This past summer I was reading the book “How to be your dog’s best
friend” by the Monks of New Skete. It was a fantastic book, one of my
favorite points the monks made was that dogs are one of the best
earthy examples of how to love unconditionally. You can literally be
in any sort of mood, but does your dog ever treat you with anything
less that love and joy? I think that dogs really are one of the best
examples of how to treat one another. The fact that a dog can always
act in a demeanor of love, is truly a challenge to me.

Overall, the experience of owning, raising and training a puppy has
been nothing short of wonderful. Even as i’ve been writing this, I’ve
had to stop multiple times to throw a toy, play a quick game of tug a
war and laugh at how Ollie isn’t tall enough to get the toys in the
bottom of his toy bin. Honestly, I love my life. I love my husband and
I love having a dog together. We have Ollie to thank for many belly
laughs, lessons learned, frustrations stifled, and great adventures.
