#+TITLE: The Wolf of Wall Street
#+DATE: <2014-12-28 Sun>
#+SUBTITLE: I say some words about the movie The Wolf of Wall Street.

Hello brave readership. I'm back after a long Christmas break to talk
about stocks. Bears. Bulls. Beets. Battlestar Galactica? I don't know
anything about stocks. Prior to being illuminated by the film /The
Wolf of Wall Street/, I thought being a broker was as easy as wearing
a sweaty button down shirt with the sleeves rolled up and shouting at
people. Apparently, I missed the bit about drinking martinis and
random office orgies.

In this movie, Leo plays the greedy, self-driven, pill-popping,
yaht-tipping, booze-drinking (participle-using?) wall street stock
broker Jordan Belfort. He's a real guy too. The movie is based on his
memoir. Belfort started a company that sells pump and dump stocks -
really terrible investments that are artificially hyped so they will
sell quickly. After the company defrauded millions of dollars from
their clients over about seven years, Belfort's company was taken down
by the FBI. All in all, it's a massively entertaining movie. The film
moves quickly, feels worldly, and features the most blissful Matthew
McConaughey scene I have ever witnessed. The only thing I want for
Christmas this year is to learn that Matthew McConaughey's epic speech
was improvised.

The movie is not exactly for the morally faint of heart. The film made
it clear that Jordan Belfort was really into some stuff that would
have probably made Caligula blush. Don't watch it with your mom.

Surprisingly, as the movie's ending was horribly unsatisfying. The
fall from grace I was craving when the FBI had nabbed him felt more
like a mere stumble. After a long career in scamming, the movie
insinuated he only got a few years of jail time.

I was more curious about the real character. Was he still alive? Is he
still in jail? Did his heart explode from all the drugs he's done in
his life? As always, I went to Wikipedia. I found out that Jordan
Belfort only served twenty-two months in prison. He was also ordered
to pay back 110.4 million dollars to victims as restitution. To date,
Jordan has only paid back 11.6 million dollars. Mind you, this is
after book deals, a movie deal, and a successful motivational speaking
circuit around the world. Meanwhile, Belfort shamelessly markets
himself as the REAL Wolf of Wall Street . According to Wikipedia,
Belfort told an audience in Dubai.

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
"Iâ€™ll make more this year than I ever made in my best year as a
broker."
#+END_QUOTE

What blew my mind was that Jordan Belfort, a career scammer and real
life anti-hero, is still making money. The disappointing ending to the
movie sort of seamlessly continues into the disappointing reality that
this guy is still rich out of his mind off of the movie you just
watched. I'll have one serving of irony , Mr. Scorsese. Hold the
justice.
