#+TITLE: Work

* I guess I've stopped following my "rules"

I’m trying out something new – just give me a sec.

I just set a stopwatch. I am going to try to write these more
quickly. I hope you like your meat a little red, dear reader. My hope
is that by the time this piece is published, you will still be able to
hear it moo (or whatever noise unpublished ideas make before they
finish their pilgrimage to the Internet).

I caught a glimpse of my first post. I’m a little embarrassed, but if
you are a blogger I am sure you understand that you can catch yourself
actually surfing your own site. Apparently in my little manifesto, I
listed three solemn rules which I swore not to break:

1. No advertising on Facebook
2. No spending too much time on how things look aesthetically.
3. No investing time trying to get my blog to be google-able

I regret to inform you that I have left all three of these rules
broken as of last October. Consistently, since “I hate bloggers”
([[file:brace-for-ego.org][Brace for Ego]]), I am obligated to hate myself for it.

[[./images/regretnothing.gif]]

But I don’t regret anything. It’s a brave new world. I will allow
those three aims to fall along the wayside, so long as I revitalize my
initiative to write more regularly – hence the stopwatch and pining
for a more raw flow of content.

* College graduates feel pretty smart

I felt pretty good coming out of college. I know the status quo for
graduating seniors is that most of their jokes ought end with “… and I
can’t believe they are giving me a degree in this stuff…”, but
secretly I think they are some of the most hell-certain people on
earth.

A college senior may joke about their own sense of inadequacy, but
don’t you buy it for a second.

But maybe you really are as useless graduating as you think you are. I
have no idea. I have never met you. I’m just telling you what was
happening in my head.

* Making a quaint home in that feeling of uselessness

But the scariest lesson that I learned after college was that I really
am useless. And living a life buttressed by an unbroken line of grand
delusions leaves you with… a really big delusion. Deep down inside, I
really expected to spend most of my time teaching people things. I may
have given people the impression that I was interested in experience
as derived from the experience of others, but I think I actually
expected to be OK.

I know, right? Disgusting. If you are graduating college and this is
kind of hitting you like grapefruit in the eye, let’s add a little
understanding to this. In hindsight, I feel like it’s kind of
inevitable that college Seniors are so self-centered right out of the
gate.

After all, everything has been about you. Everything around you has
existed to teach you something. I’m reminded of Neo’s test in the
Matrix.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oXv3SSijPFc" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>
#+END_HTML

I think all those nights I was stressing out – feeling like my future
was falling apart – was just part of a grand simulation. I’m not sure
if I was ever actually in any danger, because if you tried your best
in overcoming a challenge that a teacher gave you and failed, everyone
failed. You didn’t learn anything, and even though your teacher will
put on a tough face and give you the grade you deserve, she will
likely go home and reevaluate the challenge. Homework assignments
really just simulate real world problems, save when you fail,
everything melts out of view to make room for the next working world
simulation.

In other words, you can actually change the outcome of problems by
failing. They go away, and an easier problem is presented.

* Your education isn’t anyone’s chief purpose – and it shouldn’t be

This is why coming into an actual workplace was so jarring. Your
failure doesn’t change the outcome. If you are given a task at work
and you fail, nothing about the problem changes. The task doesn’t
exist to teach you anything. Sure – your employer will be delighted if
you do, but no one will flinch if you don’t. Money is still made,
business is still done, and the corporation marches on. Everyone who
collaborated with you at 4:30 PM is already more focused on their kids
by 5:30 PM.

It’s because working for a company, your education shouldn’t govern
your actions – it should follow them.

I hope this isn’t sounding like just another “work sucks” blog. I
rejoice in this. People may not depend on your education in your
field, but they do depend on your output. Naturally, your self-driven
education should lead to more output, but the distinction is important
if you ever want to escape the self-centered perspective on problems
ingrained in us during our education.

At work, there are a lot of meetings. Don’t talk at first. Seriously –
if you will just be logical for a second, what could you possibly
contribute to a discussion about the vision for the company or the
best way to make stake-holders happy? I’m not saying you shouldn’t
participate – listen like hell and fill every moment of dead air with
a good question.

Eventually, there will be a need for your input, and it will feel very
right and appropriate. I’m sure this is true for any line of work, but
I have noticed in my line of work that the longer you hang around, the
more pieces of the architecture you touch; and the more pieces you
touch, the more insights you can contribute. At some time, someone is
going to want to know what font the Export Worklist button at the
bottom corner of the page is using. When that happens, I’ll be the
rockstar of the day.

#+CAPTION: "Who the hell made this button Comic Sans?"
[[./images/comicsans.jpg]]

As a college graduate with my first working job, I like to think of
myself as sort of a black box. I like to think I am always collection
information. I help out when I can, but I am doing my best to always
default on listening instead of relating .

God bless teachers, but God, also bless the weary, vetted souls that
have to work with college graduates. We need a lot of help. We might
try to show off every now and then with the little we know, but it’s
just because we feel the need to surround ourselves with something
familiar – if not our friends and classmates, it’s something that
feels like the success we were feeling under the support of
teachers. And don’t be afraid to yell at us – I mean, really loudly. I
swear that four minutes into a rant from that one scary dude at work
who’s been there forever was just as dense as a four year degree, in
most respects.

I am becoming a daily-grinder, a cubicle warrior, and a regular
Dilbert reader. I get coffee headaches, I live for the weekend, and I
prepare my small talk ahead of time. I pack a lunch, accumulate
memorabilia with software company logos, and smile at our receptionist
every morning. I think I am really starting to like the working
world. Most importantly, I am getting very comfortable with the idea
of being part of something that isn’t ultimately architected to teach
me anything.

See you at the water cooler, readers. Tomorrow is another day, and
another dollar.
