#+TITLE: Writing
#+DATE: <2014-05-22 Thu>
#+SUBTITLE: I have always liked to write, but college writing classes led me to the comfortable pastures of amateur writing. Here are some tips on how to be a mediocre writer.

I like to write, but not everyone likes to read my writing. I’m
totally ok with that. I’m full-fledged comfortable with being indexed
as an amateur writer.

I started getting excited about writing around when I was in fifth
grade. It was a magical time when I realized that writing wasn’t just
a chore. The teacher actually took the time to read things you wrote
in your assignment. Unlike the math practice sheets and the multiple
choice history tests she would grade, a written assignment was the
only time you held her full attention for longer than forty five
seconds.

It was the perfect time to cram in all kinds of smart ass remarks. We
were all in fifth grade - and we all remember how dull and
cartoon-centric our senses of humor were. But the chance to tell the
teacher something directly appealed to me. This alone was enough to
motivate me to donate an extra hour or two for each writing assignment
I took home.

If I had proper glory years of writing, it would certainly be high
school. I wrote every word under the presumption that I was a raging
genius, and I wasn’t challenged in those presumptions nearly often
enough. I may have tried harder than the other students, but I wish
teachers had the gumption to call out the thesaurus held puppet
strings more often. The fact that I had no trouble writing a thousand
flowery words on anything should have raised suspicion that I have
given at least a thousand words of though to anything. Whether it was
The Old Man and the Sea , the discovery of oxygen, the deeds of Martin
Luther, or what motivated Nathaniel Hawthorne to write the Scarlett
Letter , I always had plenty to say. Looking back, it’s easy to see
why nobody really challenged me on my flowery language and
transitional phrase smoke screens. For a high school teacher, there is
nothing more exhilarating than a student participating in
something. Apathy must be the single most ubiquitous weed in the
garden of minds they’ve been given. But at this point, writing meant
only a bag of sunflower seeds and forty five minutes rattling the
keyboard of my Windows 98 desktop computer.

#+CAPTION: You see an old computer, I see a 32 bit friend.
[[file:images/desktop98.gif]]

College kicked my butt. Though watching my puppet show fall apart
under collegiate scrutiny may have been painful at the time, that pill
I swallowed was the healthiest medication I could have taken. For
whatever reason, my routine wasn’t working. The faithful ritual of
scratch outline, sunflower seeds, and forty five minutes at a computer
wasn’t cutting it in the big leagues anymore. It was a system I had
relied on - a system that had earned me secondary school accolades and
even got me into college, but no one here was impressed.

It turns out, college professors want you to actually communicate
ideas. I had learned how to word fence, play with words, assert a good
understanding of sentence structure, and even flex a pretty
respectable vocabulary, but I don’t think I ever had to actually
communicate an idea. The few writing gen eds I took ensured that my
sidecar dream of writing in a professional arena died on the vine.

If this sounds sad, I don’t mean it to. I wasn’t surprised that my
writing style didn’t cut it in college. If I were to illustrate my
learning journey on an X Y axis, it would be a straight line from 1998
to 2014. I haven’t changed a thing for about sixteen years. Writing
anything is still just forty five minutes at a keyboard riding shotgun
with a bag of sunflower seeds. The truth is that I have never really
challenged myself in communicating concrete ideas. I may have learned
to amuse a reader to some extent, make monotonous sentences a little
more interesting, and carry an essay conversation, but I was severely
malnourished in the primary purpose of professional writing. I’m not
very convincing, and being relentlessly ironic is not the same thing
as convincing.

If it means something to you, I’ve always followed some basic rules
when writing.

* 1. Don’t use a thesaurus

One of the worst things you can do to a paper, in my opinion, is write
it in full, then replace words with alternatives provided in a
thesaurus. Your paper should be a conversation. Ripping out fifteen
words and replacing them with ones you don’t know ruins the organic
origin. I kind of envision this process as performing fifteen organ
transplants on one patient in a sitting. If you switch out fifteen
organs, one of them is bound to ‘reject the host’. The same rings true
with words. If you replace fifteen of your words with ones you just
learned, one of them is bound to raise suspicion. And once you are
pegged as a thesaurus transplant writer, no one will ever read you
with enthusiasm again.

In my opinion, word complexity should be evenly dispersed. I organize
all English words I know by complexity like so:

- Level 0: Basic content fillers. /You/, /the/, /and/, /this/,
  /please/. The kind of words you would expect a four year old to have
  mastered.
- Level 1: These words rest in a fleshy, but still minority part of
  general vocabulary. They are easily the most important. Words like
  /hostile/, /enigma/, /indignant/, and /infallible/. Most of these
  should be digestible by adults.
- Level 2: These words are obnoxious when used in repeated succession,
  because there is really no other place you could possibly learn them
  without a daily word-of-the-day email or jamming your finger at
  random in an Oxford dictionary. These are words like /alacrity/ and
  /acerbic/.

In my opinion, a good paper should be an even dispersal of level 0’s
and level 1’s, with only a modest garnish of level 2’s.

* 2. Writing should flow

Even if it is an assignment you don’t care for, everything you write
should give you a little aesthetic satisfaction. Good writing should
feel good leaving your fingers. If you don’t feel right about a
paragraph you have just written, don’t hesitate to delete it. Bad
writing should always be deleted, not worked in. Plus, you have
probably written a number of average paragraphs that led you into a
bad paragraph. Never sign off on something that doesn’t make you feel
right about it. Everything should marginally sparkle.

* 3. Don’t write if you are not feeling it

Writing isn’t something you can just get into through beginning. It’s
not geometry - where you just have to ‘get into the mood’. If you
don’t feel like writing, spare us all and just don’t
write. Unfortunately, you don’t always get to be your own boss with
writing assignments and their deadlines. Consequently, this rule might
have to undergo a bit of a mutation - reading Capitalize on the
moments you are really feeling it. Do what you have to do, but never
commit the crime of hiding your enthusiasm for an assignment.

* 4. If you need to break rules, use dashes

Dashes are magical. They basically just serve as a license to kill -
the rules of grammar. Injecting mid-sentence dashes excuses all run on
sentences, imbalanced clauses, and discontinuous punctuation. Maybe
it’s just the way I think, but dashes always feel good.

So those are the four secrets to mediocre blogging-level writing. If
you have any other ideas, leave some feedback.
