---
title: oversleeping, frustration, soup, giraffes, and chores
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone. On this drippy, cold day I hope you have
something warm to wear, and a nice hot cup of coffee to sip on. This
morning I overslept, sitting up in bed at 7:00 AM - a full twenty to
thirty minutes after I usually get up. That added lots of variety to
this morning. As I briskly made my way down the stairs to let the dogs
out and get them their breakfast, I rearranged my morning in my head and
concluded it wouldn't be so bad. And it's not bad, so long as I don't
spend too much time writing. Normally going five minutes over just means
I have five fewer minutes to get ready, but today it will mean five
fewer minutes to catch my bus, which is a lot harder to do. But I'm here
now. My backpack is packed for work, I've got my shoes on, and I'm going
to see how much of this delicious coffee I can drink before I need to
fly out the door to the next adventure.

Yesterday's theme was "frustration". Work started out well enough, but
something in my JIRA permissions got screwed up and I needed to wait for
IT to fix it. I did as much work as I could, but that small thing kept
me from getting a production change out yesterday, and I'll have to find
time for it today.

I guess "frustration" is a little dramatic. I still got plenty of work
done. My Monday morning `Today` list is always the biggest, and
yesterday I killed it. I caught up on work reading, worked through the
morning, then over lunch I caught up on emails and educated myself on
how to make chicken wild rice soup.

For lunch I heated up some leftover *peposa*. And because "what are you
eating" is a pretty common question when I heat up that heavenly piece
of meat and fill the break room with smells of peppercorns and garlic,
I've discovered it's a lot easier to say "Italian chuck roast" then to
explain what *peposa* is. It also makes me sound a lot less like a
foodie jagwad.

After work, I caught the bus home and found Marissa and Rodney raking
the leaves. From what I hear, they had a pretty action packed day that
took them to the zoo, out to lunch at Portillo's, running errands at
Home Depot, and outside to clean up the yard. Rod was actually having so
much fun with her that he was dragging his feet to get in the car to go
to Hy-Vee with me, despite being promised free bread. And when a toddler
drags their feet, it's in the very literal sense. He refused to walk,
and his feet limply dragged on the ground as I carried him over to his
car seat.

Rodney eventually got into it, and soon we were at Hy-Vee picking up
what we needed to make for soup. As Rod got in a better mood, I got in a
worse mood. Hy-Vee was having one of those days where they were out of
everything, understaffed, and inexplicably busy on a early weekday
evening. They were out of garlic, fresh bread, and heavy cream. The
heavy cream particularly set me off because peering through the empty
fridge, I could see a whole box of it sitting on a pellet. If I didn't
have Rodney with me, I could have seen myself just playing dumb and
wandering back there to get it. There's the theme of the day again -
*frustration*.

The frustration continued at the checkout line. Their card reader was
acting up, and the guy in front of me had a pretty bizarre shopping
payload stuffed into a single basket. It was one of those shopping trips
where you stand in line for twice the time it took you to find
everything. When it was my turn, the exhausted cashier asked "did you
find everything OK?". For a second I thought about listing the things
that they were out of, but I was afraid of sounding like a tool.

Rodney and I head home, and I started cooking the soup. I was excited to
try my remixed version of the chicken wild rice soup. I sweat some
onions and garlic in my dutch oven with nutmeg and cumin, then added
chicken stock and sliced chicken thighs, allowing it to simmer for about
twenty minutes before sneaking in a box of instant wild rice. In another
saucepan, I melted a stick of butter and added a half cup of floor,
whisking it together into a roux. Slowly, I whipped in the half and
half. Once the rice had a few minutes to cook, I added the cream & roux
to the dutch oven and mixed. At this point, I thought we were in
trouble, because there were some clumps floating around, but I did my
best Chef John impression and kept my composure. He would have said
"Don't lose hope. Just cover it and don't touch it for fifteen minutes.
Hey that's just you cooking."

The soup turned out really well, and was a welcomed ending to a
frustrating day. As we ate, Rod and Marissa talked about their trip to
the zoo and all the animals they saw. Rod even brought his toy giraffe
along, and I could only imagine his excitement when he was able to
parade it around the real giraffes. "What a giraffe party it was",
recounted Marissa.

After we put Rod to bed, Marissa worked on frames in her shop and I
hacked on the hub. Last night I finally fixed the data volume issue. The
website is now happily reading and writing data to and from my NAS, and
I fixed a number of bugs under the hood as well. I added our chores back
in, and out of excitement I even added a few extra to fill up Thursday
evening and Saturday morning - respectively, straightening up the deck
and cleaning out the car.

At 11, Marissa and I met on the couch to watch a little more of *Blade
Runner*. It was really bumming us out, but it got pretty good last
night. We have about twenty minutes to go.

So that's my day. In a few moments, I'll slug the rest of this coffee
and run outside to catch the bus. I haven't looked at my work schedule
yet, but to the best of my knowledge it will feel like a Tuesday. I'm
going to get my change out into production, then pick another task and
do my best to destroy it.

Hope you have a great day today, reader. I don't have time to proofread
this, so typos be damned.

