---
title: sleep, naps, chores, and stats
---

Dear Journal,

Oof. I'm having a lot of trouble waking up this morning. I rolled over
to shut off my 6:30 alarm clock and it was somehow already 6:45. I think
my brain made an unconscious compromise to sleep for an extra fifteen
minutes. I don't know how that happened, but it sounds like a dangerous
game. This morning I feel like I could easily sleep until 10AM right in
this chair in our dining room if I just shut my eyes. Or I could just
trudge over to the living room couch, and I'm sure before my head hit
the pillow Zig Zig would be right there with me ready to power nap the
morning away.

I'm hanging in there. I'm drinking coffee. I'm warming up and I'm slowly
starting to feel human. This Thursday morning I feel like I'm heading
into battle. It's going to be a busy one today. I have a handful of
things to wrap up at work, and over lunch today I need to put together a
lesson plan for KidsCode. After work, we're going to chow down on some
leftovers, then it's over to KidsCode until 7:30. I'll walk back home,
but my things away, then I'll ensconce myself in a blanket on the couch
and nap for as long as it takes. Lately one of my favorite ways to take
naps is by falling asleep to the [Peaceful Cuisine] channel. Tonight I
think I'll cue up a long playlist of relaxing vegan recipes that I'll be
blissfully unaware of. Man, that's going to be a good nap.

Yesterday I worked from home all day, taking a break to walk to walk to
Glass Nickel with Marissa and Rod. We had a quick lunch, walked back,
then I had a few meetings to attend in between chipping on some code.
After work, I took a quick power nap on the couch (just a quick one -
not the deep, luxurious Thursday evening naps that I'm fantasizing
about), then took Rod to Hy-Vee. When we got home, Rod and I put the
groceries away and then I started on dinner. Lunch wasn't sitting well
with us, so we all agreed we needed something on the blander side. I
seared some chicken thighs in cast iron, baked a few potatoes, and
sliced of a loaf of bread.

After dinner, we put Rod to bed, then I hung out in the kitchen for a
while and slowly finished all my Wednesday night chores. The kitchen
needed some love - I still had some dirty dishes hanging around from
Tuesday night's spaghetti and the stove needed a good cleaning. Ah,
which reminds me - I have a great tip for cleaning the stove. If you
turn the oven on for about twenty minutes beforehand, it heats up the
metal a bit and makes it easier to wipe up the grease. It doesn't need
to be a lot of heat - I just turn the oven to 350F and clean something
else while I wait.

I continued cleaning the kitchen until about 10:30. Marissa was still
finishing up in the studio, so I sat town at the dining room computer
and worked on some code. I'm beefing up the statistics generator for my
blog. This new version that I'm working on goes pretty deep. Last night
I wrote the code to calculate the longest "droughts" - or days without
blogging. It's exciting when you finally get the math right and suddenly
you recognize the data that spits out of the program. For those of you
wondering, the longest drought was from June 6th to June 18th of this
year, and it lasted for 11 days. I'm pretty sure that was while Marissa
and I were in Vancouver. Hopefully when I'm done with this code, you'll
be able to see this info on the homepage and even click on these dates
to read the posts from around that time.

That's my time. Time to mount up and bravely ride into Thursday. Today,
I'm going to be focused, thorough, and efficient, and when I finally
walk in the house at 7:30 when it's all done, I'm going to take the
world's most triumphant nap. You should do the same - it's been a long
week, and you probably deserve a nap too.

  [Peaceful Cuisine]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSjZrxiRD-Q

