---
title: farts, over-proofing, and working out with french food
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  I hope that this morning
you're feeling enough energy to make it through the rest of the week -
or at least to Friday morning, and then I suppose we can just coast
into the weekend from there.

It feels good to get a proper, early start this morning.  It appears
the trusty backup alarm method worked, and I didn't even need to
resort to the second alarm either.  Perhaps just the mere threat of
_TODAY IS ALRIGHT FOR TONIIIIIGHT_ blaring through my phone into our
quiet bedroom was enough to prevent my subconscious from snoozing the
morning away.  More likely, I was already 25% awake from taking a turn
with Miles a few hours ago.  I awoke sometime between four and five in
the morning to an angry, hissing baby that evidently just needed to
get a big fart out.  Getting out of bed, I laid him flat against my
stomach.  He grunted and squirmed for about twenty minutes, and maybe
I was just tired, but I swear I could feel the little gas bubbles
building up in his gut before he let them all out with one magnificent
bout of flatulence.  It was almost an honor being part of another's
tremendous sense of relief.

"Thank you honey," mumbled Marissa from bed.  Miles sneezed, causing
himself to fart even louder, and I chuckled into the silence of our
four in the morning bedroom.

_Sip_.  So how are we feeling today?  What's on your mind?  Today I'm
thinking about sourdough.  My personal quest for the perfect sourdough
sandwich bread continues.  I made a batch yesterday, extending the
bulk rise through the whole night at room temperature which
regrettably produced a soupy, over-proofed dough.  One of the most
frustrating parts of making bread is the moment when you take the lid
off your pan, expecting to see an active and bubbling specimen eagerly
breaching the top of the container, but it instead looks exactly the
way you left it five hours earlier.  Dead.  Flat.  Same.

I still baked it.  While over-proofed dough doesn't make for a very
sturdy sandwich, it's delicious in its own way.  I started another
batch yesterday, and this time to prevent over-proofing, I've left the
dough to bulk rise in a straight walled pitcher, marking the starting
position clearly with a thick streak of blue painter's tape.  It will
continue its bulk rise throughout the day, and probably be ready for
the oven this evening.  Stay tuned.

With all that's going on in our city, the fact that _bread_ is the
thing on my mind today speaks to how relaxing our day was yesterday.
As tensions between protesters, police, and politicians grew downtown,
Rodney and I played hockey in the front of the house while Marissa
caught up on yardwork.

Rodney's aim has been getting better.  His favorite YouTube channel,
Dude Perfect, films these videos where they play golf on a golf course
using frisbees, tennis rackets, and hockey sticks, and ironically I
think watching these silly All Sports Golf Battle videos has
indirectly taught him how to aim with a hockey stick.

{% include figure.html
filename='hockey-in-the-sidewalk.jpg'
caption="Aiming is cool, but it's still important to get those wild
slapshots out of your system." %}

And Rodney hit another developmental milestone yesterday.  In the
morning, getting him out of his room, he brought me over to his
workstation and showed me the word _blippi_ written in the center of
his desk with a crayon.  Actually, he omitted the _l_, but
nevertheless, that was the first word that he had written on his own.

{% include figure.html
filename='bippi.jpg'
caption='I think "bippi" would be proud.' %}

After wrapping up outside and putting Rodney down for a nap, Marissa
joined me in the basement for some studio time, and I enjoyed a solid
hour of zonking out in front of some video games.  I played the game
_Skate 3_.  Perhaps it's a little early to be brushing up on my
_Skate_ skills, but what can I say?  The announcement of the next
_Skate_ game has me excited.

For dinner, I thawed some frozen cod and served it with a butter cream
sauce.  Lacking white wine and terragon, I was forced to sub in just
parsley and some fresh lemon juice.  The sauce turned out great, but I
undercooked the potatoes.

"I think my potatoes taste fine," said Marissa, trying to ease my
sense of personal failure.  I just stared at her, crunching my potato
in my teeth like a crisp apple until she started to laugh.

As Rodney was getting ready for the night, I tucked Miles into
Rodney's bed just for a gag.  Rodney threw his voice for Miles
attempting to add to the joke, but I couldn't understand what he was
saying.  So I just laughed.  A baby tucked into a big oversized bed is
enough of a joke at face value, isn't it?

Marissa and I retreated upstairs for nightly workouts.  While Miles
cried away in his crib, I grunted through my push-ups and sit-ups.

"Workout sucked tonight," said Marissa out of breath.  "I could barely
get through my push-ups."

"We... ate a lot of butter tonight," I laughed.  "That's what I'm
feeling in my gut.  Working out with french food in your stomach is an
extreme challenge."

We poured beers, popped a bag of popcorn, and settled in on the couch
to finish our three day long marathon of watching _Apocalypse Now_.

"You know what the mark of a good movie is?" asked Marissa.  "It
doesn't drag out the ending.  It just _ends_."

"I think it was the fact that the movie was three and a half hours
long, and yet I couldn't look away from the screen for the last half
hour," I added.  "I'm pretty sure my mouth was open too."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Thursday, and I'll see you tomorrow, reader.
