---
title: a broken oven, a grilled pizza, and worms in the yard
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Hope you're enjoying this beautiful Sunday
morning.  Marissa is particularly excited, because as far as we know,
she just began her last full day of being pregnant.  That means this
is the last full day where her wardrobe is limited to a single pair of
pants paired with one of my old tech conference t shirts (shout out to
[Big Panda] for unintentionally making the most cruel and ironic
maternity shirt of all time).  That means there's only one full more
day where she needs to scooch all of the chilly, delicious beer in the
fridge aside to get to her mundane supply of bottled water and La
Croix.  There's only one more full day where she has to put up with my
dumb joke where I hold my hand under her protruding stomach and say
"How many fingers am I holding up?"  If this were a marathon, I
imagine the finish line would be coming into view right about now, and
I would be feeling excited too.

Sadly, the last few days of being pregnant may have been harder than
the whole thing put together.  Rodney and I woke up to Marissa on the
couch, wearily recounting her night of tossing in bed, puking, and
back aches - all the while doing very little sleeping.  So Rodney and
I gave her the morning off, and after unwrapping a few cereal bars, we
headed outside to play.

Rodney and I spent the morning bouncing between sports.  First we'd
throw the baseball to each other, then we'd kick the soccer ball
around, and then we'd shoot some hoops with a basketball.  All the
while, Rodney insisted we run over to the plastic steering wheel
mounted to the side of his playhouse and, in between each rotation,
give the wheel a spin.

"SPIN THAT WHEEL!" he commanded.

"Oh I get it," I said.  "We're spinning the wheel to select a new
sport - just like Dude Perfect does in their combo sports battles."
Rodney nodded, as if to say _yeah, you finally caught on_.

I also introduced Rodney to the wonder of lobbing balls up to the roof
of our shed and letting them roll back down, which to him opened up
hundreds of possibilities for new and exciting trick shots - as well
as more opportunities to lose his ball over the side of the fence.

Rodney and I headed inside to make lunch, where after a quick visit to
the stove, we transformed a meager set of Chinese food leftovers into
an exciting bowl of fried rice.  We added sliced breaded chicken, a
few scoops of kimchi, a squirt of _gochujaang_, and several glugs of
delicious, sweet soy sauce - oh, and of course, we tossed in a handful
of decadent shredded Wisconsin cheddar.  Together, we munched on our
fried rice on the back porch, silently studying the yard to plan more
stunts.

After playing outside for another few hours, I sent Rodney up to his
room for some quiet time.  By then, Marissa had emerged from her
mid-morning make-up sleep and joined me in the kitchen while I started
on the evening's pizza.  I mixed a batch of dough, diced an onion, and
blended a can of tomatoes for the sauce.

"I love when I have lots of time to make this pizza," I said.  "I
think this is going to be the best [sfincione] we've ever made.  I've
got homemade bread crumbs this time, and I decided to use up a can of
our San Marzanos."  

Marissa closed her eyes and imagined a hot pizza coming out of the
oven.  "I'm excited," she said.  "I haven't really eaten anything all
day, and I'm starting to get hungry."

Rodney came out of his room, and the three of us played in the yard
for a while.  An hour before dinner, I sprang out of my chair to
pre-heat the oven and assemble the pizza.  I poured out the dough onto
a sheet pan, ladled on the sauce, sprinkled the ensemble with a ripped
up ball of fresh mozzarella, and finally spooned over the delicious
pecorino and bread crumb topping.  The pizza was ready for the oven.

I spun around to open the oven door, and to my surprise, it was still
pre-heating.  I cracked open the door and felt inside - drafty, ice
cold.  I clicked the oven off and on again.  Still no luck.  My heart
sank, realizing something was broken.

"Hey honey?  I need your help, I think something is up with our oven,"
I yelled into the yard.  Marissa joined me in the kitchen to
investigate.  The two of us started googling.

"You should be able to get to the igniter by taking off the bottom
panel," Marissa narrated.  She handed me a screwdriver, and after a
struggle, I managed to pry open the thin piece of metal and set it
aside, exposing the long heating element.  I reached up to hit the
_bake_ button.  The igniter clicked, sending a thing blue flame up the
heating element, then vanished.

I sat there for a minute, surrounded by screws and panels strewn on
the kitchen floor, googling.  "Now I'm on like hobbyists
forums... 'get out your multimeter and check the consistency of the
power draw'," I read.  "Yeah that's not happening.  Our oven is
broken, we gotta call somebody."

"I'll make some phone calls," said Marissa with a sigh.  "Do you want
me to just order a pizza too?"

I looked longingly at the sfincione on the counter.  It looked so
beautiful, with it's bright orange sauce held up by pillowy dough and
flecks of fresh cheese.

"No," I replied sternly.  "I have an idea."

I pulled the cover off my grill, filled the chimney with charcoal, and
lit the stack.  I returned to the kitchen to put the pizza tray back
in the fridge.

"You're going to try to grill it?" asked Marissa.

"Yeah, may as well try it.  If it doesn't work, we'll just order
something," I replied.

"We can try to cut it up, and use the pizza stone," suggested
Marissa.

"Eh," I hemmed.  "It's so mooshy before it's baked, it's basically a
liquid.  I think we would lose the pizza."

I finished assembling the grill, pouring the white charcoal into the
base, finishing with a few chunks of wood along the sides.  "Is this
going to ruin our pan?" asked Marissa.

"It might," I laughed.  "But my plan was just to use a shit ton of
tinfoil underneath."

I lowered the pan onto the roaring flames and shut the lid.  For the
next twenty minutes, I did my best to take my mind off the last minute
cooking experiment, chatting with Marissa at the table.  She had taken
out the box of Goldfish crackers to tide Rodney's hunger.

"I think it's time to check on the pizza," I said springing out of my
chair.  I held my breath and lifted the kettle lid, Marissa anxiously
peering over my shoulder.  The pizza was bubbling in oil, golden
brown, and the cheese was melting.  I poked the crust and quickly shut
the lid.

"So that is looking _really_ good," I said, exhaling in relief.  "Ten
more minutes and we eat."

I retrieved the pizza from the grill, scraping it out of the pan over
the counter top.  Aside from a few scorched pieces in the middle, it
came out incredible.  "It's a little smoky," said Marissa studying the
first bite, "but in a good way.  It just tastes a bit like the grill.
Way to improvise with this."

"Thanks," I replied.  "I'm bummed about our oven, especially because
of this bread kick we've been on.  But this helped - I think I needed
this pizza to turn out."

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, and Marissa and I returned to the
porch to sit outside by the fire.  I stoked the grill with some
lighter fluid, and Marissa marched around the yard to find some
sticks.

"Hey," called out in the yard with some hesitation.  "Have you seen
how many worms are out here?"

"What do you mean?" I replied.

"There's a lot of worms.  Oh my gosh.  There's a ton of worms.  Come
here, look at this."  Marissa beckoned me over, and holding the pale
light of her phone to the ground, the worms came into view.  Dozens -
hundreds of them scurrying around, slipping in and out of little plugs
in the ground.

"Aren't worms... a good thing?" I asked rhetorically.

"But this many?" replied Marissa.  "I'm so grossed out right now.
Let's go google this."

I took out my phone and opened a browser tab.  I chuckled.  "But what
do I even google?"

"Just try 'why do I have millions of worms in my yard?'" laughed
Marissa.

Sitting around the fire, we did some reading.  "So the good news is
that they're almost never a problem," narrated Marissa.  "But some
yards have so many that they can kind of screw up the soil.  Oh look,
it says you can shock the soil - that sounds easy."

"What does that look like?" I asked.

Marissa silently read on.  "Oh, OK that sounds pretty gross.  It says
they put a charge in the soil, and it makes all the worms crawl up at
once, then you just scoop them up and throw them away."  Marissa
shuddered.  "I can't stop thinking of them all crawling up at once!"
She mimicked thousands of wriggling worms emerging from the ground,
wagging her arms and fingers.

"Oh really?" I replied.  "I was picturing more of like a playdough
spaghetti maker kind of situation."  I held my fingers upright, slowly
pushing them through the imaginary earth.

"So I guess we just assume that it's a good thing for now," said
Marissa.  "Hey, that must mean we'll have an easy time growing grass
back there."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day.

[Big Panda]: https://www.bigpanda.io
[sfincione]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/sfincione/

