---
title: sentiment analysis and average quiche
---

Dear Journal,

Allow me to use the last remaining minutes of pre-noon time to say
'Good Morning'.  How are you feeling today?  I'm having a good morning
so far.  Today instead of jumping right into a journal entry, I spent
the morning making a grocery list and cleaning out the fridge, and
that inspired me to fry some leftover bacon that was languishing in
the bottom of our meat drawer.  In my experience, the best way to
clean out a fridge is to just cook and eat whatever is in it.

_Sip_.  The bacon also served as a great distraction for Rodney.  I
found some time this morning to catch up on emails, one from my
beloved friend and former roommate, Dr. Jordan Snyder.

"A couple of weeks ago you had a blog post about turning your journal
over to the historical society [for] research," he writes.  "It
reminded me of this approach called sentiment analysis, and so I
thought I would try this out with your blog."

He attached a beautiful statistics report, which included an
interactive word cloud, data, and figures illustrating how the overall
sentiment of my writing has trended over time based on my word
choices.  Based on the data, Jordan found that my writing has gotten
just slightly more negative over a year of writing.

The word _negative_ comes with caveats.  "This is based on individual
words, and thus does not take negation into account," explains Jordan.
"[Also] some may not be appropriate - I imagine you use chicken in
discussing food and not that someone is a chicken."

{% include figure.html
filename='sentiment.png'
caption='See?  2020 has sucked, and now we have the data to prove it.' %}

With the good Doctor's presumed consent, I'd encourage you to take a
look at [Jordan's Report].  As I've been spending the whole week
figuring out how to analyze my writing and building my own statistics
page, the little side project struck a cord with me.

In other news, at Marissa's request, I made a quiche yesterday.  And
even though it was only my second time making a quiche from scratch, I
waltzed into a half cleaned kitchen at 5:45 with the cocksure swagger
you might expect from a brunch cooking titan like Martha Stewart or
Julia Childs.

"Are you sure you want to make a quiche?" asked Marissa.  "We can do
something faster if you want, it's pretty late."

"NONSENSE," I said dismissively.  "I've made this before - I'll just
throw it together."  I sank into the computer chair and scanned my
bookmarks, finding the official French Cooking Academy approved manual
for a Quiche Lorraine.

"Wow - It's a lot more complicated than I remembered," I muttered.
Between making the crust, rolling out the crust, blind baking the
crust, preparing the garnish, mixing the custard, the recipe spanned
five different short videos and three pages of steps.

"I'm going to stain the fence with Rodney," said Marissa on her way
out the back door.  "Are you good if I leave Miles in his crib?"

"No problem," I said, trying to prop up my confidence from earlier.

I measured out two cups of flour and dumped it onto the table, forming
a crater in the middle.  Next came an egg yolk, a splash of water, and
a pinch of salt.  I stirred the liquid together into a slurry with my
finger, then added a stick of butter.  Following the video, I squeezed
the butter between my fingers while sprinkling flour onto the mash.

I sprinkled.  I mashed.  I scraped the butter from my fingers and
mashed again.  Precious cooking minutes slipped away, and my pile of
butter turned into just a pile of butter and flour.  After what felt
like a hundred repetitions of the magical procedure, it became clear
to me that this mess was not becoming a ball of dough any time soon.
I took a step back from the counter and took a deep breath, then I
swept the pile of crumbled mess into the garbage can.

{% include figure.html
filename='shortcrust.jpg'
caption='Reminder that I said I would "just throw this together"' %}

I started again.  Crater of flour, an egg yolk, and a new stick of
butter.  I moved much more slowly this time, taking care to
incorporate the flour more intentionally.  Squeeze, sprinkle, gather.
The incantation worked, and like magic out sprung a beautiful lump of
short crust dough.

Trying to make up for lost time, I attempted to blanch the bacon while
also sweating a chopped leek in butter.  I pulled the bacon out on
time, but it was at the cost of just slightly burning the leaks.

After a quick rest in the fridge, I retrieved the shortcrust from the
plastic bag and threw it on the counter, running my rolling pin over
the top.  The dough split into three pieces and left a slimy, buttery
residue on the rolling pin.  "Not enough time in the fridge," I
muttered.

After sloppily patching the pieces of dough together around the pan, I
threw it into the oven underneath a pile of rice.  While it pre-baked,
I changed a screaming Miles' twice soaked diaper, assembled the
quiche, then slid the final assembly into the oven for one last bake.
I threw my cooking apron on the hook and stepped outside.

"Wow," I sighed.  "That's the last time I ever underestimate a quiche.
That thing just kicked my ass."

"Aw, did it not work out?" asked Marissa sympathetically"

"Nah, it's in the oven now.  It's an average quiche - it's not passing
with flying colors," I chuckled.  "Actually, if this was for a real
cooking class, I probably wouldn't pass at all since I burned the
leeks."

I stretched, then wandered further into the backyard.  Rodney was
coloring the stone pavers with sidewalk chalk.  I grabbed a seat on
the ground beside him, and Rodney put me to work.

"Color this one with THIS color," said Rodney handing me a stick of
chalk.  "Then when you finish, say _TADA_."

After such a challenging time in the kitchen, it felt good to zone out
and color.  The oven timer rang, and I went inside to pull the quiche
out of the oven.  We were hungry, and decided to forgo the usual cool
down time.  After all, the best part about making an average quiche is
that you can cut into it as quickly as you want.

{% include figure.html
filename='average-quiche.jpg'
caption='It has been said, "better to have an average quiche than no
quiche at all"' %}

There is no "throwing together" a quiche.  In fact, I think making a
quiche from scratch would make for the ultimate calorie burning
workout if not for eating the quiche.  Two slices, plus the leftovers
on Rodney's plate sent me into a food coma, and after putting Rodney
to bed I snuck off for a quick evening nap.

Respect the quiche.  And have a wonderful day today.

[Jordan's Report]: https://demo.alexrecker.com/jordans-report.html
