---
title: ebay scams, cleaning the kitchen, and blue tape
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope your Tuesday is off to a good start.
This morning in bed I woke up to a handful of notifications from ebay.
We've decided to sell Marissa's Canon camera, since our new phones'
camera is so good, it's no longer worth investing the time to ramp up
to a to a new hobby just so she can take pictures of her paintings.

The actual camera needs another lap around the ebay bidding pool, but
last night, somebody pulled the trigger on her extra camera lens.

"Hi I am so excited to receive your item," read the message.  "I am
uncomfortable to ask this, but would you mind sending it to this
address instead."

In the message, there was a pixelated screenshot of an address in a
completely different part of the country.  I sighed while rolling out
of bed.

"I think a scammer won the bid on our lens - he's giving me crap about
the mailing address," I said to Marissa as I passed.

"Ah bummer," she said while patting Miles on the back in her arms.

As I waited for coffee to brew, I delved into the nuances and trivia
of Ebay seller protection.  Indeed, if you don't send the item to the
address in paypal, the buyer can file a claim and likely win, which is
why this scam is common.

I opened a new browser tab and began to write a reply, but the
username caught my eye.  _Member since June 30, 2020_, read the
screen.  His account was a few hours old, created after our lens sold.
I chuckled.

"So I was wrong," I laughed, coming back into our room with a cup of
coffee for Marissa.  "He wasn't even the guy who bought it.  He was
just trying to get me to send it to him."

"It's an even dumber scam than we thought," replied Marissa.

I still responded to the user.  I'll play dumb and see how long I can
string this person along.  In case you weren't aware, it's the civic
duty of every Internet user to find scammers and waste as much of
their time as possible.

_Sip_.  How are we feeling today?  How is your Tuesday morning?
Rodney is in rare form - he's been awake for the past hour, trying to
hold a conversation with me from across the hallway as I type.  I have
a feeling he's trying to lure me into letting him out of his room, and
as we all know, once Rodney breaches the barrier between his room and
the hallway, the quiet, adults only part of the morning ends and the
Rodney portion begins.  But Rodney isn't allowed to breach that
barrier until 9:30 AM, and much like dealing with an ebay scammer, the
best defense is being a stickler for the rules.

Yesterday morning, Rodney and I pulled off the unthinkable.  We had an
_amish_ morning, spending the entire time together without any TV.  It
came at a price, however. In return, Rodney left colorful pom poms,
slivers of construction paper, and spools of blue painters tape strewn
all over the floor.  Meanwhile, I spent the morning applying slow and
steady pressure to the mountain of dishes left over from Sunday
night's Chilean food exploration.  Slowly, steadily, unwavering, like
a boa constrictor swallowing a hapless animal, I wrangled the mess
into the dishwasher.

After clicking the dishwasher on for the first cycle of the day, I
looked up and gasped, seeing Rodney had spooled nearly the entire roll
of blue painter's tape around his head.

"What do you got there, dude?" I asked, leaning into the dining room.

"I'm a super hero," said Rodney.  I was relieved that his mouth was
exposed.  Marissa came down the stairs and laughed.

"Oh my," she exclaimed, "this looks like so much fun!"

Coaxing Rodney to hold still, Marissa drew a pair of eyes on the tape
with a sharpie.

"I shouldn't have made the eyes so wide apart," she said critiquing
her work.  "Now he looks like a weird little alien."

Rodney held his head at a kilter angle so he could see through the
narrow space in the tape over his eyes.  His strange bobbing head
movement just added to the effect, like he was sniffing something.

"Yeah, this is really unsettling - I don't like this," I commented.

{% include figure.html
filename='a-thing-of-nightmares.jpg'
caption="A thing of nightmares, isn't it?" %}

Marissa removed a ream of tape.  "How about we just draw some silly
thick eye brows instead."

Rodney would spend the rest of the day with his head wrapped in blue
tape.  He ran around the house, providing his own _wooshing_ sound.  I
didn't mind, because Super Hero Rodney's super speed really comes in
handy when you need a loose sock taken upstairs into the hamper, or
you need another roll of paper towels in the kitchen while cooking.

Just before dinner, we asked Rodney to take off the tape.  Not
surprising, he had grown accustomed to it, and we had a parental
confrontation.

"You can't wear tape at the dinner table," I scolded.

"Why?" whined Rodney.

I hesitated, looking for a concise reason that would fit in his three
year old brain.  "Because..." I stalled, looking at Marissa.  Marissa
shrugged her shoulders.

"Because it's bad for your skin," I said.

"And we want to see your face at the table," added Marissa.

Not that Rodney was really interested in the reason, as if he would
weigh the _pro_'s and _con_'s of leaving his head wrapped in tape and
arrive at a civil compromise on his own.  Marissa grabbed one end and
unspooled the tape.  Rodney cried, but luckily his head was so sweaty,
it was barely sticking anymore.

After dinner, I enlisted Rodney's help in starting a batch of bread.
Marissa nabbed him afterwards and talked him into helping her with a
fish tank water change.

"And now is the time of the evening where we just expose you to our
hobbies and hope something sticks," she jokingly narrated.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day, everyone.
