---
title: children's programming, alone time, and flambé
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  This morning, I hope you'll
join me in shaking off all the weekend's debauchery in hopes of having
some semblance of a productive day.  Last night my vice was snacking.
Leftover taco bell.  Buttered bread.  Mashed potatoes in mushroom
creme sauce right out of the tupperware.  A handful of goldfish
crackers.  The bouquet of late night impulse eating still swirls
around in my mouth with my morning coffee.

Super hero Rodney, Haunty the crane, and I are holding down the fort.
I've got music bumping out of our speaker in the kitchen and Rodney is
taking in a nutritious mental breakfast of _Ask the Story Bots_.
Lately, Rodney is really shaking up his TV choices.

"Dada," said Rodney unprompted at the dinner table.  "I'm all done
saying _pound it, noggin', see ya_ - I don't wanna say it anymore."
And just like that, _Dude Perfect_ reruns were booted from Rodney's
primetime TV watching slot.  This morning, Blippi got the axe.

"Too much _Blippi_," said Rodney.  His simple words that felt like
music on my tired ears.

It's easy to see why people have such strong opinions about children's
programming, isn't it?  If the early exposure to lessons and values
weren't important enough, it also indirectly becomes the show that
parents watch and listen to in the background all day.  I think that's
why some shows try so hard with celebrity cameos, inside jokes, and
tolerable music.  And why shouldn't they be entertaining for adults
too?  If shows like _Paw Patrol_ have shown us anything, it's that
entertaining children is not very difficult.

"An article popped up on my news reader called _Paw Patrol is the
Worst TV Show Ever Made and My Kids Love It_," said Marissa taking a
sip of coffee.

"Ooh, that sounds spicy," I laughed.

"Paw Patrol has been getting destroyed in the news lately," she
continued.  "I think at first it was the _copaganda_ stuff, but I
think people are finally paying attention to all the other terrible
things about the show.  Like how it doesn't teach any lessons."

"I would jump on that bandwagon," I laughed.  "Paw Patrol sucks.
They're right, it's just designed to sell toys.  I'm sure they'll bend
over backwards to make the detractors happy just so they can keep
doing it."

After our breakfast, Marissa and I headed out into the backyard.  We
were determined to finish the fence project before lunch, and that
meant braving the swarms of mosquitos.  If the heat weren't enough,
this summer's mosquitos have made working outside incredibly
difficult.  We worked in short bursts, kneeling down by the base of
the backyard fence to hold the wooden slats in place while Marissa
drilled, then we'd retreat to the deck to re apply bug spray.

With energy zapped from swatting bugs in the heat, we crumpled on the
couch, recovering with some delivered Taco Bell and our church's
Sunday live stream.  After the service had finished, Marissa rose to
her feet and collected her things.

"Rod, want to go with me to the pet store?" she asked, putting Miles
down for a nap.

I grinned.  Miles was asleep.  There was leftover taco bell in
fridge.  Marissa was taking Rodney on an errand.  The stars were
aligning for the perfect alone time.

"Woah," I said aloud.  "Is this really happening right now?"

Marissa smiled and nodded.  "Have fun, dada."  She and Rodney headed
out the door.  I grabbed Rodney's unfinished chicken burrito, and like
a modern day Caligula, enjoyed a solid hour of lazy, uninterrupted
alone time on the couch.  Taco bell.  A new [Run Pass Option] YouTube
video.  Glorious.

Marissa and Rodney returned.  Rodney ran into the living room,
triumphantly brandishing a new Frisbee Marissa bought him at the pet
store.  Over stories of Target adventures and pet store turtle
sightings, we played with it in the backyard for a few minutes before
sending him to his room for quiet time.  I joined Marissa in the
dining room, where she got to work installing a new protein skimmer in
the fish tank while I began dinner.

For dinner, we made our current standby favorite: seared pork
tenderloin medallions, mashed potatoes, and mushroom sauce.

The weekly recipe sees plenty of variations, depending on what we have
in stock.  Sometimes I use shallots instead of garlic.  Sometimes I
have to use cold chunks of butter instead of cream.

My favorite part of the recipe is when I get to deglaze the pan with a
small cup of brandy.  When the small amount of liquor hits the hot
pan, it sizzles, releasing a plume of fragrant smells in the air.  The
pan, previously brown and crusted from searing the meat, gives way to
a swirling cloud of coffee colored liquid and suddenly becomes clean.

Yesterday, I had an impulse to flambé the mixture.  For the initiated,
a flambé is when you light the pan on fire while it's deglazing.  The
alcohol, quickly escaping as vapor, ignites in a brightly colored
flame.  Everything I've read and watched has made it perfectly clear
that a flambé does absolutely nothing to the flavor, it's a bit
dangerous, and it's only intended for showboating.

So last night in the kitchen, after dumping in a small glass of
brandy, I dug a long lighter from the kitchen drawer.  Standing far
away, I cautiously brought the lighter to the pan and pulled the
trigger.  The pan ignited, and the bright orange flame sprung out and
began to lick the bottom of my microwave.  I nervously grabbed the
handle and scooted it away.  I breathed a sigh of relief as the flame
cooled and retreated back into the pan.  I added a cup of chicken
broth and casually sauntered over to Marissa.

"Does it smell like smoke in here?" I asked.  Marissa looked up from
cleaning the fish tank and shook her head.

"Nothing burning?" I asked.

After a more conscious sniff, Marissa shook her head again.

"Good.  I flambéd the sauce, and the fire was a lot bigger than I
planned.  But I think I got away with it," I laughed.

"I don't approve of it, but I appreciate how calmly you told me," said
Marissa, nervously chuckling.  "Please don't do it again."

"Oh don't worry," I replied.  "It was cool, but it's out of my system.
I just wanted to be able to say that I've done it."

"How big was the fire?" asked Marissa.

"It _almost_ touched the microwave," I laughed.

Marissa's smile vanished, and she began to look panicked.  "No it
wasn't!"

"Nah, I'm over-exaggerating," I laughed.

"How big was it?" pressed Marissa.

I smirked.  "That depends on how mad you are."

Thanks for stopping by today.  If you're going to flambé something,
ask your wife first and have a fire extinguisher on hand.

[Run Pass Option]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JUuuWhjk6A
