#+TITLE: Uhh Yeah Dude

[[file:images/uyd.jpg]]

"What are your top five podcasts?"  This is a question you see all
over the Internet these days.  I guarantee that if you put that on
your Facebook right now, you will come away with about eighty new
podcasts to try.  Which is why you have to trust me when I say this:
/Uhh Yeah Dude/ is something special.

When /Uhh Yeah Dude/ joined my podcast queue about two years ago, it
immediately felt different.  That's because /Uhh Yeah Dude/ doesn't
rush to hold your attention.  There's no jingle, advertisements, or
really any indication that you are listening to a podcast.  Each
episode simply opens with a song plucked from a lovingly curated
playlist, played in its entirety.  The music fades, the episode number
is cited, and off it goes for about sixty minutes before another song
plays them out.

But who are they, and what are they doing?  /Uhh Yeah Dude/ is simply
a conversation between Hollywood locals Jonathan Larroquette and Seth
Romatelli.  They weave between satire, commentary, story telling, and
venting all as part of a mediation on their tagline, "America through
the eyes of two /American/ Americans."  There are absolutely no inside
jokes or context that needs to be revisited, because somehow despite
doing this show since February of 2006, Seth and Jonathan remain
fixated on the present and the future.

"Comedy Podcast" falls so short in describing what they do.  /Uhh Yeah
Dude/ is a performance art.  You haven't lived until you've listened
to Seth incredulously dissect the mission statement of Buffalo Wild
Wings or Jonathan recount the time he rescued a wild, exotic parrot
from two predatory birds on the side of the road.  Their wild
anecdotes and satisfying mockery mixed with their quirky tendency to
change topics without warning will leave you wondering where the last
hour of your life went.  Laughter is inevitable, but the second you
confine the show to "comedy podcast", it will surprise you with
something genuinely poignant, touching, and honest.  While no
headline, Craigslist personal, or Internet ad is safe from their
wandering banter, their originality remains the constant force that
ties the show together.

/Uhh Yeah Dude/ draws you in with authenticity.  Seth and Jonathan's
deep understanding of each other is palpable, and even contagious to
the point where you feel like you are in that East Hollywood apartment
snicking on the couch with them.  And that familiarity is no
accident - it's earned through numerous live shows and accessibility
to their listeners.  They even have a toll free voicemail that they
encourage listeners to call at any time or day.  They repeat the phone
number so often, it feels like a catch phrase.  My wife called this
number about a week before my birthday with a pretty open ended
request to give me a shoutout or text me "Happy Birthday".  You can
imagine my excitement when I found that Seth had left me a two minute
long voicemail where he leisurely read the day's horoscopes from his
local newspaper.

#+BEGIN_HTML
  <div>
    <audio controls style="display: table; margin: 0 auto;">
      <source src="audio/uydvoicemail.ogg" type="audio/ogg">
    </audio
  </div>
#+END_HTML

I don't know what else I can say about Uhh Yeah Dude.  I don't have a
"top five" list for podcasts, as they've all come and gone and
eventually become background noise.  /Uhh Yeah Dude/ is the only
podcast I look forward to.  It's original, hilarious, thought
provoking, and just always hits the spot.  You should really check it
out.
