---
title: july 4th, breakfast, python, stranger things and chores
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday's holiday was pretty relaxing. I managed to wake up about an
hour before everyone else, so I quickly took the car to the Jenny Street
market and picked up some bacon, eggs, and a jug of their famous freshly
squeezed orange juice. Waking people up with the smell of bacon is fun.
Also, I tried that little paper towel trick that Chef John uses to dab
up grease, and it worked beautifully with bacon, so adding that to the
playbook. After breakfast, we picked up some flowers and paint stuff for
the dining room, and on the way home we grabbed some Portillo's since we
had been out and about for a while. When we got home, we were pretty
exhausted and Rod was getting in a bad mood, so we decided to just take
it easy for the rest of the day and stay close to home. To add to our
case, this was also going to be the last low-key day of the week for us,
since we have the birthday party and some friends staying the weekend. I
grilled a chicken and made some cornbread, we put Rod to bed, I got a
little time to write code, and then Marissa and I stayed up just a
little too late watching the first Stranger Things episode.

Which was pretty amazing by the way. I don't know why, but I'm always
reluctant to watch the new ones. I never seem to remember how amazing of
a show it is, or have any desire to go back and re watch it. I need to
re-calibrate, because that show is on another level. Maybe it layers on
the 80s nostalgia a little thick, and it can be just a tad pandering at
times, but undeniably entertaining. And a solid opener to the season at
that.

Today, I'm back to work in the morning, then working from home starting
around lunch time. We have a ton of shopping to do this evening for the
party, and Marissa knows that I need serious emotional support whenever
I have to spend more that \$70 at Hy-Vee. After our big shopping trip,
we're going to make a special pre-party chores list, then likely cook
and clean into the wee hours of the night.

So that's what we're up to. Besides the party, I mentioned I got a
little time in to code. I'm working on a slackbot to help automate
things for us. First task will be a mailing address manager. We have
everyone's address between our google accounts, but there's just too
much information in google, and it's difficult to share contacts. So the
idea is to write a little slackbot that can fetch anyone's contact info
on command, dump lists of people, sort them by tags (e.g. \#rodney
\#birthday), and maybe even automatically send out emails that request
updated info.

I'm also kicking around the idea of moving our chores to a slackbot
system. I started out keeping all my chores in org mode using
reoccurring tasks, but Marissa wanted to get in on the fun, so I added
some for her, and now I'm kind of acting as a chore dispatcher. So
there's potential for improvement there: I love being relied on to keep
routines, but I love automating them even more.

Out of what can be best described as delusional vanity, I'm attempting
to make the whole thing with no 3rd party dependencies - just 100%
python. Currently, my strategy is just to recreate some bare bones
renditions of packages I'd normally install. Yesterday I managed to get
a \`rest\` module finished for web requests and a \`shell\` module for
running shell commands. The standard library for python is serious
stuff, I'm not writing nearly as much code as I thought I'd be doing.
We'll see how that holds up when it comes time to write a web server.

So that's what I got. OK, time to get psyched up for party weekend.

