---
title: strangerthings, automation, and edgar
---

Good Morning!

I'm feeling refreshed today, and eager to get back to work. I took a
pretty long nap yesterday, which allowed us to stay up a bit and knock
out some episodes of *Stranger Things*. Speaking of Stranger Things, I
couldn't be happier watching season 3 right now. I have some thoughts:

I love the contrast between how little the characters know about what's
going on with how much the viewer knows what's going on, observing all
the story lines. You can stay a few steps ahead of all the characters
and draw conclusions before they do, which creates a lot of dramatic
irony and suspense. I love the *Dungeons and Dragons* parallels. Last
night I noticed that if you pay attention to Will's *Dungeons and
Dragons* campaigns, they usually describe what's going on in the season,
e.g. "the peaceful town is threatened by a dark force coming out of the
swamp." I'm not that familiar with *Dungeons and Dragons*, but each of
the characters in the show kind of plays out like a character with their
own special skills. Winona Ryder is really good at playing a mom from
Indiana who flips out over weird things happening to her appliances.
This is the only spoiler I'll give, but magnets on her fridge are the
new Christmas lights.

So yeah, I couldn't be happier with this season. Season 1 & 2 were good,
but I just wasn't gaga over the show until now.

So what else is going on. Ah, yesterday I hacked on my blog code a bit.
I added a generated [feed.xml] file. I set up an IFTTT service to post
to my family's slack channel whenever I added a new entry, and I'm also
thinking about hooking it into twitter. With another side project almost
completely wrapped up, my head is filled with all kinds of fun ideas to
work on. I think next I might hack some more on "edgar". The idea is
pretty out there, but "edgar" is a home automation assistant that you
talk to with consoles around the house. At first he'll have a very
simple shell in which you can launch modules. I came up with something
like this last night.

``` {.example}
EDGAR> groceries
Launching groceries module.
Available commands: add delete show exit
GROCERIES> show
black garbage bags
gallon ziploc bags
sippies cups
GROCERIES> add milk, eggs, butter
Added milk, eggs, butter
```

I have plenty of ideas for modules, but a grocery list would be a good
one to start with. If I get a chance to work on it tonight, I'll be sure
to bring back some updates.

Alright, time to get going. Let's have a wonderful day!

  [feed.xml]: https://www.alexrecker.com/feed.xml

