---
title: daylight savings, it, and nesting
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. Wherever you are, I hope you are finally getting
adjusted to the time change. Complaints about daylight savings aside, at
least it falls on a weekend, so you have a day or two to sort yourself
out. It's 7:28 AM where I'm writing this, and that feels just about
right. Rodney, on the other hand, is wide awake, throwing his stuffed
animals around. I take it he isn't quite adjusted yet.

It's much brighter this morning. Sometimes I forget that that's kind of
the point behind daylight savings. It's supposed to give us more light
in the morning. Or is it? That's one of those things I'd really have to
sit back and think about, but what's the point?

Yesterday was a pretty full & fun day. We made it to early church, and
as we were picking up Rodney at the end of the service, the Sunday
school teacher said Rodney is getting really comfortable playing with
other kids. Usually, before we get him, Marissa and I like to spy for a
few minutes. You very rarely get to observe your kid like that, and it's
interesting to see what they do when you're not around. Our last church
actually had a two way mirror. It kind of reminded me of a psychology
lab.

After church, we went home for a bit. Rodney watched some TV while I
cleaned up my AWS bill - which was long overdue. AWS is scary business
because most of the billing goes off of usage, so most months it's only
a few cents here and there, but I guess conceivably if any of the 8 or
so silly websites I own suddenly got popular, I could be looking at a
nasty bill. I moved a handful of sites over to the much thriftier github
hosting, and for only having about an hour at home before our next
outing, that was pretty good. I cut the bill in half, from \$6 a month
to \$3 and change. *High fives self*.

We all jumped in the car and drove over to Alex and Cassie's house. Rod
brought his bilingual airplane & airport set. We ate pizza, knocked back
a few beers, and watched the Bears go out with a whimper against the
Eagles. Watching the game with other people made it a little easier to
stomach how bad the offense was playing yesterday. It was also great
catching up with Alex and Cassie. They have a cool place downtown, and
you can see the capital right out their living room window.

After the game, we went home, and Marissa and Rodney took a long nap
until dinner. I was thinking about cooking something, but Marissa talked
us into just having the leftovers from our fridge - which was a good
decision. Getting a break from cooking, I had plenty of energy to
straighten up the house.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I worked on the IT corner. I
powered everything off while she sanded and drilled three wood shelves.
I held the boards and brackets in place while she screwed them to the
wall. About an hour and a half later, I had everything plugged in,
finally hitting the big red button. I was very pleased that all of my
home infrastructure passed the 'reboot test'. Normally when you turn
everything off, then on again, at least one thing needs to be manually
reconfigured, but last night the IT gods smiled upon me and everything
gracefully warmed back up again. The shelves look pretty sweet, too. I
decided not to go nuts with the cable management until I get a few
missing parts, but just having all the crap sitting on a shelf makes it
look much neater.

After finishing the shelf, Marissa and I finished watching *Bridge of
Spies*. It was a long movie, but ultimately worth it. Tom Hanks has the
kind of face that earns your trust. Like, if Tom Hanks were telling a
really long story, I would hang with it until the end - same goes for
his movies, I guess.

This morning, I have "nesting" on the brain. Marissa just finished her
first trimester. And by "trimester", I mean a third of a human
pregnancy. We found out we were having another baby - well - one
trimester ago, and as I'm about to tell my work later today, I figured I
might as well also tell the ol' blog about it too. While I have big
news, I don't have a lot of reflections this morning. Remember, I've
known for a while. But trust me, I hate it when there are big things
going on in my life that I can't write about. I like this journal to be
as porous with my personal life as possible, and plus there were plenty
of mornings when I didn't have *anything* to talk about, and I could
have used the extra material.

But back to what I was saying - this week, "nesting" is top of mind. As
I was walking through the house rebooting things before the shelf, it
came to my attention that some of the IT in the house has been
neglected. I think the last time I threw a weekend at our home network
was when I mounted everything to the wall. It's due for another pass,
especially with Christmas coming up. Last night before bed I was adding
things to my amazon wishlist. I think I'd like to move the router pieces
into an "open air case", which is basically just a metal bracket that
holds all the parts as a stable unit without a big computer tower. I
just learned there was a name for it last night. Don't you just love
when you find out there's a name for the possibly imaginary thing you're
picturing in your head?

I'm also a little behind on chores. I keep up with my daily and weekly
chores pretty well, but the house could use some love before it gets
cold outside. Last night, I was kicking around the idea of establishing
a cleaning power hour in the evenings - something like 9pm to 10pm -
where I just pick one neglected corner of the house and knock it out of
the park. Marissa rolled her eyes as I interrupted myself, assuring her
"I wouldn't bug you about this, this is just a 'me' thing. You have
enough to do,".

So that's what I got today. Wherever you are, I hope you have a great
morning and a great rest of the day. I hope you take advantage of the
last remaining days of above freezing temperature. Go for a walk in the
rain, or drive somewhere with your windows open - it's going to be a
long winter!

