---
title: seinfeld, pizza, and spiderman
---

Dear Journal,

We made it to Friday! It's a beautiful morning, isn't it? I kicked off
my morning routine with a slight variation today. Usually I run a load
of dishes, then before I turn in for the night I make coffee for the
morning. Last night, I had just finished making tonight's pizza sauce,
and the dishwasher was still running. So this morning, instead of
letting the coffee machine kick in and lazily browsing reddit in bed, I
had to spring up and start the machine myself. I watched an episode of
Seinfeld while I waited - the one where George gets a massage from a man
and feels uncomfortable about it. George and Jerry discuss how to truly
test if you're a homosexual, and the rest of the episode George gets
hostile when people unwittingly remind him of his new found insecurity -
like when Jerry's dentist friend tries to get George to join him in
admiring an oiled, glistening Evander Holyfield on his poster. *He's a
good fighter and a nice guy, but I don't LIKE him.* The undeniable fact
that this episode is still funny is a testament to the mastery of
Seinfeld. The conversation around sexuality has moved so far past the
whole *hetero guy anxiously wonders if he's gay* trope, it would have to
take a genius to land that joke in 2019. And there I was, laughing to it
at 6:30 AM in 2019.

Today, Marissa, Rodney, and the puppies are going to an agility trial.
It's Ziggy's first official trial in a while, and she's been diligently
practicing. After work, I'll arrive at an empty house, with nothing on
my TODO list but making a pizza before everyone gets home. I finished
the sauce last night, but I'll need to walk to the grocery store and
pick up some cheese. Hy-Vee struck out again last night, as they were
out of pecorino cheese for the fourth week in a row. They just
reorganized their cheese aisle, and I'm starting to wonder if they just
stopped carrying certain things all together.

This weekend, there's more agility, but Rodney and I will be staying
home. He's started to form food preferences. The other day, Marissa
tells me he asked to eat eggs for breakfast. This weekend I'm on a quest
to find out what else he likes to eat, and all through out we'll be
watching spider-man cartoons. We've depleted our meager stash of 2000's
era *Spectacular Spider-Man* episodes, so we're turning the clock all
the way back to 1994 and trying out the original 90's version. And don't
you accuse me of letting my own nostalgia dictate my son's preferences -
I barely had to try, and the 90's Spider-Man is nothing short of a
masterpiece. Except the theme song - the theme song is absolutely
garbage. What do kids want to hear on Saturday morning? Unsingable
monotone grunge rock, of course.

Have a happy Friday everyone. Today, let's get our work done, then
reward our effort with some good TV time. Watch something a little
older, maybe?

