---
title: work talk, pan sauces, ginseng, and youtube binges
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. Happy Friday. It's been a long week, and I'm
grateful I get to say that this morning. I could use a Friday, and I'm
looking forward to resting up this weekend. I might even sleep in
tomorrow - who knows. My Saturday morning alarm has always been low
priority, and something tells me that after this week, it doesn't stand
a chance tomorrow.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. I found a nice, juicy bug to work on
all morning somewhere in our build pipeline. It sounds annoying, but
truth be told of all the work I might take in a week - collaborating on
documents, writing instructions, setting up demonstrations, implementing
new features - bug fixes are the most straight forward. There's little
interpretation that goes into the success criteria of a bug. Chances
are, you don't have to run anything by anyone or set up a meeting to
talk about it. Your work is simply done when the bug is fixed, and
there's nothing more to talk about. It's like filling out a cross word
puzzle - Relaxing, and unambiguously finish-able.

Lunch time rolled around, and we three *cloumigos* decided to go out
together. We walked together up the block to Tavernakaya, sat at a quiet
table, and ordered a round of beers. We chatted about work,
commiserating about the usual things, then got to talking about home
life, the weekend, and free time.

"I'm playing around with a kubernetes cluster at home," I said. "I'm
having a lot of fun with it." Alex shook his head. "I don't know how you
go home and do that stuff, infrastructure is the last thing I feel like
thinking about when I get home," replied Alex. He continued. "As much as
I hate to be the guy who sits in front of the TV after work, I almost
need to do that."

Whereas I'm just a regular engineer, Alex is a group tech lead. He's
responsible for weighing in on architectural discussions happening in
other teams and keeping everyone in sync. Chances are he has a lot more
to think about at work than I do.

Rob nodded in agreement. "Yeah, I don't want to think about any of that
shit either," he said gruffly. Rob is a long time Zendesk engineer - the
only one seated at that table for three that predates my time. He's
coming up on five years. "So Robbo, you're coming up on five years,"
Alex began. "That means you're taking a sabbatical soon, right?" Rob
nodded and smiled. "Oh it's still a thing," he said knowingly.

We continued talking over a second round of drinks, then made the walk
back to the office. Rob paused outside for a cigarette. Alex and I
huddled around him to carry on talking. The wind picked up, and Alex and
I went inside. "That's the real reason why I could never pick up
smoking," Alex said to me. "I'm not good at standing outside when it's
cold out." I laughed, and we took the elevator up and returned to work.

I worked the rest of the afternoon, then paused at four to make a
grocery list for tonight. Wanting to broaden my repertoire, I did a
quick google search for basic pan sauces. My go to has up until this
point been apple cider vinegar, apple juice, and honey. *Any alcohol can
be used in a pan sauce,* I read. The inclusion of beer piqued my
interest. I shut my laptop and headed out into the cold to catch the bus
home.

Coming home, I entered the house quietly. It wasn't until I opened our
back door, causing our alarm system to chirp, that Ziggy could be heard
running through the dining room to greet me at the door. She yawned,
curled up at my feet, and following close behind was Ollie. Marissa was
in and out of a nap on the couch with the Office quietly playing on the
TV. I greeted her, then went upstairs to get Rodney. Rodney was sleeping
deeply, and even for his high strung toddler energy, it took a couple of
shakes to wake him.

Rodney and I hopped in the car and got to chatting about his day. He had
gone to Canine Sports Zone with momma, and he was really excited about
what he ate for lunch. "Rice *krappy*, juice, goldfish… but rice
*krappy* first!" he proclaimed. Rodney is a staunch believer that
desert, in this case a rice crispy bar, should be enjoyed first.

We shopped, picking up pork chops, potatoes, and restocking on Marissa's
favorite blueberry muffins. As we swung around the outside of the store,
Rodney called my attention. "Uh, I have to go potty," he said. I glanced
at the time on my phone and decided we could afford the extra trip all
the way in the back by the bakery to use the potty. It was a false
alarm.

Back at home, I cooked dinner, assembling my beer and stone ground
mustard pan sauce. The base of the idea was good, but fearing it would
bitter, I used a little too much honey and reduced it too much. The
final product came out looking like - well - honey. As we sat around the
table talking, I got up to make a cup of tea. After Fong made me a cup
of ginseng tea when I was sick, I ordered some from the internet. It's
essentially a little bag of fragrant sticks, like cinnamon, only if it
branched. I cracked a few twigs into a mug, added a dab of honey, and
filled it with hot water before rejoining my family at the table. I took
a sip, letting out a deeply satisfied sigh. "Oh, this is a new thing," I
said pointing at my tea.

Marissa wanted to get a jump on a large painting she was working, so I
offered to put Rodney to bed. After walking through his bedtime routine
and finishing up my Dutch lesson, I crashed on the couch, followed
closely by Ziggy who joined be under the blanket. Thursday nights are my
lazy night, and I usually spend the entire night on the couch binging
YouTube videos. Last night, nestled under the blanket with Ziggy, I
watched Stephane of the French Cooking academy braise a pork shoulder in
milk. The milk was supposed to curdle, he explained, which is why he
passed it through a sieve before thickening it with chunks of bread. I
teased Marissa that I found our next dinner idea. She gagged at the mere
thought of a piece of meat simmering in milk.

I spent the rest of the evening watching recipe videos for making Nasi
Goreng. I'm keen on the idea, but I'll proceed with caution, as every
time I've embarked on making fried rice, it's been a thorny path fraught
with peril - and nearly destroying the bottom of my pan.

I'm thankful the weekend is here. Tomorrow is my niece's birthday, and
we're driving down to Chicago to see everyone. Rodney, catching wind
that he'd be hanging out with his cousins, is ecstatic, but I worry he
thinks that every time we see them means a day of water slides. That's
the toddler brain for ya.

Hope you all have a wonderful day. Thanks for reading, and welcome to
the weekend!

