---
title: frustration, fake seasoning, and coding
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! How is everyone feeling today? This morning, I'm
feeling well rested. This time of year, hot showers seem to keep me
sane, but it's hard to step out of a really good shower on a cold
morning, isn't it? Most mornings I picture myself like Kramer in the
Seinfeld episode where he decides to live in the shower. I'm sure if my
work computer were waterproof, I would try it for just a day.

Aren't you glad it's Friday? I am. I'm relieved it's Friday. Between
working in the basement and working at home, I feel exhausted, but
equally happy and grateful we're just about done. Just as I described to
Rodney last night while putting him to bed, we have plenty to look
forward to. We're going to get some snow tonight, we're going to make a
pizza, and on Saturday, we're going bowling. The Recker family gets
hyped about Saturdays at the bowling alley.

I'm also feeling tired from working in the basement this week, but still
reeling from what we accomplished. Marissa and I share the same
disbelief. "Today I went downstairs to do a load of wash," she
explained, "and I noticed I was still stepping over and weaving between
the imaginary garbage that's no longer there." I laughed, picturing her
zig zagging through an open corner of the basement out of habit.

Thursday was a long, hard day for the both of us. Marissa had a tough
agility class. Ziggy was at a high energy level, and they were having a
tough time connecting while training, and Rodney didn't help the
situation either. "Rodney is feeling more confident there," she said.
"He's friendly to everyone, and likes to get involved, but now he's less
likely to just sit and entertain himself." I continued listening as we
sat around the dinner table at Pasquale's. Rodney had claimed our second
bowl of taco chips for himself. He even got angry with me when I tried
to take a chip, leading to an intense dinner table stare down.

Marissa and I continued to vent and exchange stories. I didn't have a
great day at work either. I didn't get as much work done as I had hoped.
All this week, I have been trying to jump into a new project, using a
new programming language and new framework, and I was starting to feel
restless. I seemingly can't find enough time to focus and gain some
traction, and by yesterday it was starting to frustrate me. Sometimes, I
wish I could freeze time, and sit with something for six or seven hours
in absolute silence until I understand it. And as soon as I start to
build some momentum, I get a slack message or a calendar notification.
My concentration breaks, and it feels like I have to start over again.

The best part of my work day yesterday had to be my leftover goulash. I
filled a bowl and left it in the work microwave while I selected a drink
from the fridge. I relished the smell as it started to trickle out of
the break room. I ate in the break room with Heath, Nate, and Karl.
Karl, who just had a baby, recently returned from paternity leave and
was regaling us with stories from the big lifestyle change. Nate was
picking at a flimsy chicken breast.

"Nate, I just have to say, that chicken breast looks like you bought it
on an airplane," Heath teased.

"Yeah," Nate replied. "But I didn't. This one is all on me. The worst
part is that the seasoning is fake. It looks like it should taste like
something, but I think it's just supposed to look seasoned." I laughed,
reflecting on the concept of *fake seasoning*. "What are you eating
today, Recker?" said Heath turning to me.

"Goulash," I replied, playing with my fork. "It's a one pot meal, and I
kind of got to give my family the middle school lunch lady experience -
you know, *ENJOY YA NUTRITIOUS MEAL KID. NO SECONDS.*," I said with my
best hoarse smoker's voice, miming slapping a pile of food onto a plate.

I worked through the afternoon, the joined my coworkers on the seventh
floor for happy hour. Having only ten minutes before my bus arrived
outside, I decided not to imbibe. Last time, I had to practically chug
the rest of my White Claw, and it left me feeling sort of woozy after
heading home. I stayed just long enough to chat about the day and bid
everyone farewell.

After going out to dinner with Marissa, I put Rodney to bed. We read a
book about how Spider-Man, Ironman, the Hulk, and Thor challenged ice
monsters from another dimension to a snowball fight. "Look dude - that's
Spider-man, Ironman, and that's the Hulk." Rodney looked up from our
book, puzzled. "No, not hulk. That's hulk," he said pointing at one of
the ice monsters. "Agree to disagree," I said, smiling back at him.

After putting Rodney to bed, I went into chill mode. I changed into some
sweats and hung out on the couch with my laptop, letting YouTube run in
the background. I spent the evening tidying up some of my side projects
and cleaning up the automation around my blog.

I'm also starting to branch out into the world of mainstream NFL. I
watched a video on the top rookies of 2019 and some general reactions to
major off season decisions. I'm finally bearing witness to how
underrepresented the Chicago Bears are in most discussions. Mitch
Trubisky was mentioned once - and used as an example of a promising
young quarterback who turned a disappointing corner.

So that's what I got today. I allowed myself plenty of extra time to
publish my entry today, just in case I broke the script last night while
shuffling things around. There's nothing worse than seeing an error
message and code puke out onto your screen as you're trying to rush out
the door to catch a bus.

Hey - thanks for reading, and happy Friday. You're practically done for
the week. There's nothing left to do but to cook meals, shovel snow, and
take your family bowling. Have a great Friday, everyone.

