---
title: marshmallow incentives, refunds, and sweet potato gnocchi
image: posts/2020-06-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday.  Congratulations on making it
to the end of the week.  Even though it's Friday, Rodney and I are
treating this morning like a Saturday, lazily soaking up this
beautiful morning with some breakfast and Blippi on the couch.

I should have known better - today I tried to shake up Rodney's day by
bringing him some sourdough toast with jelly.

"It's pretty sour-y," said Rodney, turning up his nose at a wedge of
bread.  Rodney had started to use the word _sour-y_ to describe
everything he doesn't like, or in the case of breakfast, anything
that's not a sippie cup of milk and a blueberry _crappy_ bar.

So how are you feeling this morning?  Today I'm thankful for coffee.
You know it's funny - just after writing about all of our coffee
brewing mishaps yesterday morning, we had a bonus round of coffee
spillage.  As I was recapping everything that had happened to Marissa,
Rodney swung his arm an knocked over her open tumbler, sending a
beautiful, steaming brown waterfall over the edge of our side table.
Our brand new wireless charger floated away like a raft in a river of
hot coffee.

After patting the mess dry with a few wads of paper towels, we
assessed the damage.  The wireless charger is no longer charging, and
it currently has twenty four hours to remedy itself before I declare
it dead.  On the bright side, it's been a real struggle trying to keep
Rodney from setting his milk on top of the charging pad like his
personal coaster.  And now that it's likely fried from being coffee
logged, we can just designate this as his permanent personal sippie
cup coaster.  In our house, every piece of technology either dies a
hero, or lives long enough to become one of Rodney's toys.

_Sip_.  After brewing even more replacement coffee, Rodney and I went
to Hy-Vee.  After yesterday's grocery haul, I'm starting to wonder if
I'm being a little too permissive with the treats.  I let him talk me
into a bag of marshmallows, a pack of Tate's cookies, and a tiny toy
motorcycle.

The marshmallows at least are a pretty useful bargaining chip around
the house.  It's becoming clear to me that Rodney will do just about
anything for a marshmallow, and we've started to use them to motivate
him to do chores.

"Dada - _two_ marshmallows please?  I been a good boy," says Rodeny,
wringing his hands together in the kitchen, smiling from ear to ear.

"Put the dishes in the sink, then get a new roll of paper towels.
Then put your toys away," I said.  Twenty minutes later, Rodney will
be waiting in front of me with his hands cupped, and later I'll find
all the dishes stacked haphazardly on the kitchen counter, his toys
shoved to the corner of the living room, and a free roll of paper
towels lying on the kitchen floor.

"You should just buy the smaller marshmallows," said Marissa.  "Then
we can give them to him more often for smaller jobs."

"That's a good idea," I replied.  "A marshmallow is such a big deal,
it's sometimes hard finding _enough_ things for him to do that justify
a big marshmallow."  Marissa was aptly viewing this as a dog training
problem.  In dog training, incentives are valuable, and it's important
to reserve them, stretch them out, and make them achievable.

After returning from Hy-Vee, I sent Rodney to his room for some quiet
time and began to put the groceries away.  Marissa, who was on the
phone with some kind of customer support line, flashed me a grin from
the dining room.

"Hi there," said Marissa in a sweet Midwestern tone.  "So you're now
the eighth person I've spoken to, and I'm just trying to find the
answers to some questions I have about getting a refund."

After some time, she wheeled into the kitchen and pumped her fist.
"They're giving us a refund for the igniter that I fixed," said
Marissa.

"GET OUT!" I replied.

"Man Sears is terrible," laughed Marissa.  "They didn't even escalate
me.  I just kept getting disconnected, and then I think they just got
sick of me.  We're getting a full refund."

"Man, and this is the place that actually correctly diagnosed the
problem," I said.  "If anything, of the two places we paid to come
out, this was the murkier one.  If you got your money back from these
guys, the other place is a slam dunk."

"Oh no, we definitely deserved a refund from this place too," said
Marissa.  "Remember - they bumped our appointment by another month,
and didn't bother telling us.  The guy was just a no-show."

"And not to mention you just did the freakin' work yourself," I
laughed.

After putting the groceries away, Rodney joined me in the dining room
to make sweet potato gnocchi.  It's a fun recipe that just involves
mashing up some cooked sweet potato flesh with ricotta, a beaten egg,
and flour.  Rodney likes to join when it comes time to roll the dough
into long snakes and chop them into tiny pillows - or as you might
call them in Dutch, _kussentjes_.

"Dada - I have more flower please?" said Rodney reaching for the bag
sitting on the counter.

"Nah, I think you have enough in front of you," I said, preoccupied by
my own orange dough snake.  But Rodney persisted, and after climbing
precariously on the top railing of his ladder, he managed to reach the
bag of flour.  By the time I caught him, he had gathered a pile in
front of him and buried his face in it, like Al Pacino in _Scarface_.

"I think that's enough flour for you," I laughed, zipping the bag
shut.

"Thanks for making my favorite meal you guys," said Marissa as she sat
down at the table.  I had finished the sweet potatoes in a sauce made
from browned butter, bacon, chopped rosemary, and a half scoop of
salty pasta water.

"So this took about twice as long as it normally does, because I
rolled every piece of gnocchi across a fork to try to make those
pretty ridges," I said.  Marissa picked up a _kussentje_ to study it.

"There's nothing to see," I laughed.  "It didn't work.  Even the ones
where it did, it went away the second they were cooked."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful day today.
