---
title: some stories about my mom
banner: 2020-10-24.jpg
---

## Vigilant at Six Flags

Once a year, my mom would take us to Six Flags Great America along
with our aunt and our cousins.  My mother planned the annual outing so
thoroughly and meticulously that I couldn't help but feed off the
energy.  I used to get so excited the night before, I wouldn't be able
to sleep.  With my outfit laid on the floor in the corner of my room,
and a printed brochure of all the fastest rides at the park resting on
my desk, I'd lie in my bed staring at my ceiling fan until the sun
rose the next morning

It's no secret that Six Flags is a bit of a money pit.  The tickets
were expensive, and along the way they'd shake you down for parking,
lockers, drinks, and god forbid you actually order anything to eat
while you were there.  But all the expensive spoils and overpriced
trickery of the American amusement park status quo was no match for my
tirelessly thrifty mother.  She saved diet coke cans marked with
coupons to hedge the price of our admission.  She packed us a picnic
lunch feast to enjoy out in the parking lot in the middle of the day.
With all the cereal bars, peanut butter jelly sandwiches, carrots,
celery, chips, and cookies we could possibly want, it was hard to want
more, and we didn't have any reason to give Six Flags an extra dollar.

Except of course for Dip 'n Dots.  That was the one in-park indulgence
of the day, and nobody questioned it.  I think you'd have to be crazy
to turn your nose up at Dip 'n Dots, even at the exorbitant Six Flags
mark-up.

Taking your children to Six Flags in the late nineties, stranger
danger reigned as every parent's top concern.  To quell her own fears,
my mom used to write her cell phone number with a thick permanent
marker across our stomachs.

"But mom," we'd ask.  "We memorized your phone number.  Why do we need
it here?"

"You never know," she'd say.  "You could forget, or you could get
_klopt in de kop_."

She had a point.  Although it never came to this, I suppose it was
comforting knowing that if I got into trouble, all I had to do was
walk up to one of the blue polo wearing Six Flags attended and just
show them the fresh phone number sharpie tattoo on my sweaty, pale,
hairless midsection.

## The School Lunch System

There were few things my mother took more seriously than packing
school lunches.  With the rigor and discipline of a Michelin star
chef, my mother would lay out our to-go meals each night following her
same tried and true system.  In a classic brown paper bag she'd pack a
main course, a salty side dish, a drink, and a sweet.

Following the same system each day, like a true culinary artist she
found room for variety and spontaneity even within the strict
boundaries of these food groups.  Most days it was a sandwich and a
cookie, but sometimes it was a couple of slices of pizza wrapped in
tinfoil, a wedge of biscuit tomato pie, or a tupperware _bukje_ of
casserole on which the words _Jane Recker_ were written in immaculate
cursive to remind you that of how important it was to return the empty
tupperware when you were done with it.

As we got older, she agreed to let us order hot lunch from the
cafeteria a few times a week.  In place of a sandwich, I ordered a
burger or tacos, vending machine chips instead of a side, a drink out
of the vending machine - but what about the sweet?  Even on days we
ordered our lunch at school, she still sent us out the door with a
brown paper lunch bag with just a napkin and a cookie or a pair of
Trader Joe's peanut butter cups.  There always had to be a sweet.

Meals were serious business for my mom.  No matter what we were
eating, it had to be complete, it had to be together, and it had to be
prepared, plated, bagged, and proportionally tupperwared with love.

## Horizontal and Vertical Lines

While working on homework on a school night, Kelly was having trouble
remembering the difference between the terms _horizontal_ and
_vertical_.  With her crisp notebook paper, sharpened pencil, and
oppressively heavy Saxon Math book arranged on the kitchen table, my
mom scooted a wooden chair along side her to explain.

"Look Kel," she said.  "It's easy.  _Horizontal_."  She repeated the
word more loudly, more forcefully, making a fierce chopping motion
through the air with her hand.

"Hori-ZON-tal!" she yelled.  Kell caught on and together, they chanted
"_HORI-ZON-TAL HORI-ZON-TAL HORI-ZON-TAL_."  From my bedroom I heard
the syllables bounce around the high ceiling of our living room like a
Maori war cry.

"And then the other one is _vertical_," she said more gently.  "See?
You got _HORI-ZON-TAL_... and _vertical_.  _HORI-ZON-TAL_... and
_vertical_."  My sisters and I adopted the mnemonic as our official
memory aide for learning the difference.  All three of us at some
point were probably guilty of muttering the chant to ourselves in math
class.  _HORI-ZON-TAL_... _vertical_.

"And what about oblique?" asked Kelly.

"That's easy," said my mom at the table.  "Oblique... that's just the
weird-ass one."

"The weird-ass one," Kelly shrugged.  "OK, I can remember that."

## Sick Days

My mom treated us so well on sick days, I almost looked forward to
coming down with a stomach bug or catching a cold.  She'd lay out
	fresh sheets and pillows on the couch in front of the TV with a clean
puke bowl and a cold wet rag at arm's reach.  All morning, she'd make
trips up and down the stairs with ginger ale and ice water.  For
lunch, if your stomach wasn't too upset, she'd bring up a plate of
cheese and crackers, chicken noodle soup, and toast.

_Momma always feels sorry for sick kids_ was a phrase we heard a lot
growing up.  She never rushed us to get better or acted like it was a
chore.  I never felt like I had to prove I was sick enough to warrant
her care.  She was generous, and with her actions, she taught us that
when you're sick, the most important thing you could do is rest, take
care of yourself, and get better.

## "I'm Sorry"

Growing up, we had plenty of fights.  My sister's and I fought, my
parents and I fought, and things would sometimes get heated.  But one
type of fighting that never took place in our house was passive
aggressive fighting.  Nothing was hidden out or carried out in secret.
Everything was hot blooded, immediate, out in the open, and
transparent to a fault.  If we had a problem to deal with, we'd hash
it out at the table through yelling and tears until we figured it out.

My mom believed that there was something sacred and final about the
moment when the person at fault humbles themselves enough to blubber
the word "sorry".  She wouldn't think about holding it over your head
or saving it as ammo for another fight.  She'd reach across the table
for a hug, and in a single embrace she could absolve you of all the
guilt.  "It's OK," she'd say.  "We're done with it now."

She taught us that there was power in the words "I'm sorry," and that
if you really meant it, real family is quick to forgive, and the
things you regretted may as well have been hurled into the ocean or
shot into space, never to be mentioned by anyone again - unless you
were ready to joke about it.  Time, and maybe a little bit of light
hearted teasing, can heal all wounds.

Happy birthday, Mom.  Thanks for everything you taught me.  I love you.
