---
title: dead shrimp, super powers, and scary paintings
image: posts/2020-07-02.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  Today, I hope you stay close
to your air conditioner as well as your coffee pot.

We're kicking things off this morning on a sad note, paying a small
remembrance to the late cleaning shrimp Bruno, who regrettably crossed
the rainbow bridge last night.  Honestly, he probably kicked the
bucket on Tuesday night, but there are enough forum posts about shrimp
magically coming back to life after a period of inactivity that
Marissa and I felt compelled to give him a whole 24 hours before
declaring him dead.

This morning, his 24 hours expired, and a few of his legs even broke
off his limp carapace and floated away like little pieces of bright
red saffron.

Rest in piece, Bruno.  You were a strong shrimp.  Your broad shoulders
and menacing glare gave us the impression that you were invincible.
It hardly seems fitting that a warrior such as yourself would die
doing something so mundane as molting your exoskeleton - frozen
eternal as a little shrimp statue trying to wrestle his way out of a
crunchy little t-shirt.

"Maybe the water is too hard," read Marissa.  "It's says if the water
is hard, their molts will be too tough to get out of, and they'll die.
Then again - if the water is too soft, it says their molt will be too
bendy to break and they'll die."

I gave Marissa a worried look.

"Cleaning shrimp are too hard," said Marissa.  "I don't think we're
ready for another one yet."

We just ask that if anyone wishes to offer their condolences to
Rodney, please stick to the toddler version of the story.  Bruno needs
extra time at the _shrimp hospital_, and he'll rejoin our family when
he is healthy.  And furthermore, I did _not_ (wink wink) fish Bruno's
carcass out of the tank with a pair of chopsticks and drop him in the
toilet this morning.

_Sip_.  We're hanging in there.  Despite the fish tank getting just a
little less vibrant, Rodney and I had a great morning yesterday
hanging around.  After finishing up my chores for the morning, I
joined Rodney at the dining room computer.  He was getting tired of
the same free twelve videos on the Nick Junior website, so I decided
to introduce him to the Internet gem of the [Addicting Games] website.
Together, we played old classics such as _Excite Bike_ and _Flappy
Bird_.  We cackled together while playing a clicker beach volleyball
game where you controlled these stiff avatars that flopped on the
ground.  Together, we both pondered the mystery of how anyone could
find enjoyment in the game of _mahjong_.

After sending Rodney up to his room for some afternoon quiet time, I
took a nap as well, then cleaned up from lunch and began to prep
dinner.  When it was time to get Rodney out of his room, he greeted me
in the upstairs hallway with a power stance, flaunting the stickers
that were covering his body.

"Hey _Shred-head_," he hissed.

"Oh, hey _Shred-head_," I replied.

"Dada," said Rodney.  "I have powers."  Rodney narrowed his eyes, then
with an outstretched hand, he commanded a gust of wind to knock me
back down the stairs.  I embellished the fantasy, gasping and falling
to my knees.

Rodney has been really into his "powers" lately.  Sometimes he'll come
find me, and through fake tears lament that his _powers are gone_.
That's my cue to take a knee, and with my own _powers_ I'll draw
energy from the earth or something and shoot them into Rodney.  And
then of course, when we're feeling rascally, we can steal each other's
powers or trick each other into giving up powers.  I'd like to think
we both innately know all these made-up rules surrounding imaginary
super powers because we were both at one point three year old boys.

{% include figure.html filename='super-powers.jpg' caption="Beware.
They say if you're close enough to see the smiling pineapple sticker
on his forehead, it's too late." %}

Between fending off Rodney's powerful wind attacks, I prepared dinner.
We had sausage rice pilaf with a tray of _saucijzenbroodjes_.  And
just to get something cold and crunchy on the plate, we ate it with
sliced cabbage tossed in a quick lemony french dressing.

After putting Rodney to bed, I opened my closet to change into some
more comfortable clothes.  Opening my curtain, I shrieked, seeing the
ghostly, misshapen visage of one of Marissa's botched practice
drawings.

"This is terrifying," I called out from our bedroom.

"Oh, you finally found it?" said Marissa smiling, walking into our
room.  "I was practicing more faces, and this one doesn't work out."

"I like how that it's at an angle, it kind of goes with the face she's
making," I replied.  We both laughed, trying to recreate her puzzling
face.  "I think I'll keep it.  It's a nice addition to my closet."

{% include figure.html
filename='scary-painting.jpg'
caption="It's like I have my own personal sassy ghost to mock my
wardrobe decisions." %}

While cleaning up the kitchen, I took a break to enjoy a slice of
[Krang Bread] with Marissa.  I was really pleased with this batch.
I've been finding a lot of joy experimenting with this recipe, looking
for unnecessary steps to cut out.  In yesterday's batch, I reproduced
the entire ferment cycle with just a single strip of tinfoil, so no
need for plastic bags or plastic wrap.  I also stopped slashing to the
top of the loaf and dusting it with flour.  Marissa and I agree that
the end loaf looks much better just left in tact.

I can't, however, justify skipping out on the 30 minute dough folds
during the bulk ferment.  While tedious at times, it really does make
a difference in the texture.  I set down my slice of bread on the
window sill so I could get a picture of the soft crumb and big gassy
bubbles.

{% include figure.html filename='krang-bread-crumb.jpg' caption="Bread
is just the best, isn't it?" %}

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.

[Krang Bread]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/krang-bread/
[Addicting Games]: https://www.addictinggames.com/
