---
title: problems with focus, hat stories, and growing up
image: posts/2020-04-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Aren't Saturdays the best?  Today, we
unanimously slept most of the morning away.  Even Rodney seemed
reluctant to come out of his room today.  The slow morning continues,
drinking coffee, grazing on breakfast bars and banana bread, and
making crafts with paper at the dining room table.

Marissa gave me the morning to write and work on code.  It would have
been wiser to finish my journal entry first before getting lost in my
side project, but I have very little self control when it comes to
_when_ and _for how long_ I work on code.

Sometimes after we head upstairs for the night to go to bed, I'll sit
down at my computer and get sucked into another unplanned 30 minutes,
45 minutes, or a full hour of late night hacking.  "I imagine that in
your head, you just say _I'm just going to look at it real quick_,"
teases Marissa.

Sometimes my brain feels like an unwieldy bazooka of focus.  I have no
problem with thrust and firepower.  The difficulty, for me, lies in
aiming it at the right things.  But we're here now.  I've closed all
my tabs and coding windows, and I'm not even going to peek at anything
until I'm done writing.

_Sip_.  Rodney's new hat arrived in the mail yesterday.  Since there's
not much going on these days, Marissa and I try to conserve the
momentum of Rodney's childish excitement by hyping up everything as
much as possible - especially when new things arrive in the mail.  He
excitedly pulled the hat out of the packaging and held it before him,
but he seemed reluctant to wear it.

"Try it on dude," we urged.  But Rodney shook his head.  "No, it's my
_baseball_ hat," he replied.

"Oh, no dude.  Hats aren't just for baseball," I replied.  "You can
wear hats all the time.  In fact, just hold on a second, let me grab
something from the basement."

I disappeared into the back corner basement, clambering over stacked
cans of paint and side tables with my head hunched low.  I extended an
arm behind the water heater, nudging a tupperware bin free.  My
favorite childhood hat was nested safely inside.

"Here dude," I said returning to the dining room table.  "This was my
hat when I was little.  Look at how beat up it is!  I used to
practically live in this thing."  I donned my hat for Rodney.  The
green color is so faded from the sun, it's hard to imagine what its
original color was.  The plastic bill, riddled with chips and cuts, is
completely exposed by the shredded fabric.  The cap is decorated with
dabs of white paint and even a few little pieces of caked dry wall.
The inside of the hat smells vaguely like sweat, summer camp, and
teenage hormones.  Having my old green hat out reminded me of one of
my favorite camp stories.

I was at a church summer camp in junior high, and as usual, I brought
my green hat with me.  The boys stayed on a separate side of the camp,
but in the evening we all got to mingle and socialize as a mixed
group.  We'd spend the evening playing four square, shooting hoops,
and enjoying candy, root beer, and ice cream.  There was one girl at
camp who, during this time of socializing, would take my green hat off
my head without asking and wear it for the night.  Her darting eyes
and quick glances gave me the feeling that she was trying to get a
rise out of me, but being too self-conscious to chase her or make a
scene, I pretended it didn't bother me.  I was bothered, though.  I
was terrified of the possibility that I would lose her in the crowd
and fail to get my hat back before returning to the boys' side of the
camp for the night.  What if she forgot about it and it was lost?
What if somebody were to accidentally take it home?  I had the hat for
so long that feared losing it would be equivalent to losing a part of
my personality.

I did get my hat back that night.  And later in the evening, my cabin
mates and I returned to our side of the camp.  There was a small fire
set up in the common area between our cabins, so we pulled up some
chairs and stumps and started talking.  Our youth pastor Mark joined
us.  His brooding confidence, along with the quiet evening and the
crackling fire set the tone for a secretive conversation about the
opposite sex.  I waited for a turn, then raised a question.

"Mark," I said.  "What does it mean when a girl steals your hat?"  He
chuckled, letting me finish my thought.  "Sometimes girls take my hat
and run away with it, and I'm not sure what that means.  Is she just
trying to annoy me?"

"Recker," he said leaning forward towards the fire.  "It's a good
thing.  Hat stealing is always a good sign," he said.  "Think about
it - it's not about the hat.  She knows it's important to you and
she's not going to let anything happen to it.  She's just trying to
get you to chase her."

We quietly marveled at the wisdom he shared.  Following that
conversation, I made an effort to be a little more free-spirited and
trusting with my hat.  I even started to let girls write their name or
leave a little doodle on the inside of the bill.  But much like summer
camp crushes, even the darkest of permanent marker bubble letters fade
and disappear over time.

After I finished my long winded camp story, Rodney put on his hat too.
I doubt he'll hold onto his brightly colored _Dino Trux_ hat long
enough to see it become collateral in a flirtatious game of summer
camp cat-and-mouse.

"He looks like such a big kid wearing that hat," said Marissa as
Rodney ran into the backyard to play.  "I don't like it - this is all
happening too fast."

"Yeah," I nodded in agreement.  "It's scary.  That hat makes him look
like a kid.  Like an actual person."

Hats have a weird way of marking the passing of time, don't they?
Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Saturday.
