---
title: 'from the homework vault: stories about doug'
banner: 2020-12-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everybody.  Hope you're having a wonderful Sunday.
Today I'm going to try something different.  Instead of writing
something new, I'm recycling some old homework assignments I wrote for
school.  It's still my writing after all, and it's not doing anyone
any good just sitting in my Google drive.

For a composition class in my senior year of high school, I had to
write a series of stories about a childhood best friend.  I chose to
write about my friend Doug who lived across the street.  The following
stories were written and submitted in the first week of December 2008.

And so without further ado, from the homework vault, I give you some
stories about Doug.

## Foot In Mouth

I was horrified to discover that my front bicuspid was loose.  It was
not a prominent wobble, but the psychological discomfort was
ravishing.  With every bite of my morning grapefruit, I felt the faint
aftershock of my gum tissue slowly unearthing.  I needed to remove the
young tooth for the sanctity of my sanity – this tooth had to go.

To me, Doug was a hunter, scholar, warrior, poet, and a hero all
divinely conceived into one mighty soul.  I dashed across the street
and gave a modest tap to his back door.  Doug, hunched over a bowl of
cereal, ushered me in with a weary nod.  My lungs squeezed out a cry
for help.

“Doug, Doug, my tooth is loose.”  I held my head in panic as I watched
him lethargically chew the Lucky Charms in his mouth.

“You gotta... pull it out,” said Doug in nonchalance, between lazy
swallows.  He stared at me with blissful disinterest.

“Won’t that... won’t that hurt?”  I said with a pathetic yelp.  Doug
just stared and chewed.  He lobbed his spoon into the sink and wiped
his hands on his tattered sweatshirt.  He lifted his finger as he
yawned, pointing to the corner of the kitchen.

“Go stand over there and open your mouth.”  I shuffled nervously at
his command.  I stood pigeon-toed against a set of cabinets and opened
my tiny mouth.  Doug leaned back in his chair and closed an eye.  He
held a crimped face for a few seconds, as he was in deep
concentration.

“Is this going to hurt?”  I asked in a trembling pity.  Doug smiled
with one corner of his mouth.

“Yup.”  Doug cocked his foot back and lunged it forward, sending one
of his jet-black sneakers into the air.  The shoe struck me in the jaw
with laser-guided precision.  I fell to the floor and screamed.  My
face pressed against a pool of blood and tears on the sleek hardwood
floor.  My cries fainted as I looked up at Doug.

“That hurt!”  My anger was kindled as I attempted to stare him down.
Doug lifted an eyebrow at my insolence.

“Does it hurt now?”  I rolled over to my back to ponder his words.  I
was awestruck with his wisdom.

“So the pain was worth it,” I said as I dried my tears with my sleeve.
Doug nodded from his chair as he chuckled.

“Gosh, there’s blood everywhere.”

---

resize.sh: resizing /home/alex/src/blog/images/banners/2020-12-13.jpg
_This story is mostly true.  Doug actually knocked out my tooth by
flinging one of his shoes at me.  However, it didn't quite go down
like this.  We were sword fighting in his front yard and he just
wanted to catch me off guard.  He didn't mean to hit me in the mouth._

## Of Grace and Root Beer

I tied my skates a little tighter than usual.  This game was serious.
I was tired of the nauseating smell of defeat.  I was tired of living
in fear and doubt.  I was tired of hyperventilating myself to sleep
night after night, lying awake in a pool of my own failure.  I was
tired of it.  The day came when I would be done with it.

That day was no ordinary one-on-one driveway street hockey game with
Doug.  This was to define a legacy and baptize a champion in
greatness.  We had picked the day at least three years in advanced and
trained relentlessly.  Only one of us would emerge as a victor.

Six amber colored bottles sat on the porch, glistening in the
sunlight.  Doug and I had won a three-legged race at a block party the
night before and were awarded the coveted six-pack of Goose Island
root beer.  Goose Island was a fine root beer.  Because of its
quality, we only reserved it for very special occasions.  We had
agreed that morning that the winner of the hockey game would be
awarded the entire six-pack.

“Ready for me to skate circles around you, Alex?”  Doug peered at me
from the opposite side of the driveway as he wrapped his stick in
tape.

“Shut up.  I hate you.  Everyone hates you.  I hope you die in a freak
hockey accident!”  The anticipation was making havoc with my emotions.
Perhaps I was too young to be able to handle so much pressure.

As I struggled to rise to my feet, Doug skated a few brisk warm up
laps in the street.

“C’mon, you baby!”  I yelled as I awkwardly shuffled to the center of
the driveway.  Doug shook his head carelessly as he dropped the puck
on the cement.  I held my breath as we crouched low for the face off.

“I’m feeling good about today,” I mumbled just before I shoved an
orange mouth guard between my chapped lips.  We bumped our sticks
together three times and lunged at the puck.  Doug immediately swept
through my legs and flipped in an easy goal.

Doug proceeded to annihilate me.  I could only marvel at his finesse
as he wiped the goal post with my dignity.  In a matter of five
minutes, Doug had reached twenty-five goals.  He dropped his gloves
and threw his arms up in exuberant jubilee.  He loosened his skates,
sat on his front porch, and snapped the top off of a Goose Island root
beer.  I, on the other hand, sat on the driveway in great pain.  I
began to cry a little as I watched Doug holler to himself.  Doug
stopped and stared at me.

Through my teary eyes, I could see Doug holding out a root beer to me.
I shuffled over to his porch with a quizzical look.

“But the root beer is for you.  You won. I didn’t.”  Doug smiled with
contentment.

“Alex, if you don’t win graciously, you haven’t really won at all.”

I snorted back the last of my tears as I flashed a toothy grin.  I
grabbed the root beer enthusiastically and dropped in a lawn chair
beside him.  Doug turned to me and smirked.

“Cheers.”

Doug and I sipped through the entire six-pack of Goose Island as we
watched the sun set over his roof.

---

_This story is true.  Doug was older than me, and had no problem
wiping the floor with me whenever we played roller hockey in his
driveway.  We were competitive, but the viciousness was mostly
exaggerated._

## The Carp

The Carp had been in the pond for as long as we could remember.  We
never bothered to give it a name.  To us, it was just “the Carp.”  I
fished at the pond often, for it was only about six houses down and
ten yards into the forest preserve.  I had only seen the Carp once.
The memory of its reptilian figure and ghastly hiss kindled more
inspiration than fear.  We did not fear the Carp.  We respected it,
and so we fished for it.

That day was like any other try, save that I finally mustered the
courage to swipe my dad’s Deluxe Spence-scout BassPro lure from his
expensive tackle box.  Doug, as always, was using American cheese.  As
I tied the impressive jig do the end of my humble fishing pole, Doug
shook his head in quiet, but prominent, disapproval.

“This is going to catch the Carp.” I said in resilience to his
condescending glances.

“No.  It’s not.”  Doug was cool and confident as he spit in the center
of a pristine slice of Kraft cheese and wadded it into a ball.

“Do you know my dad caught a mermaid with this lure?”  I crossed my
arms, emulating his confidence.  Doug smirked and retorted.

“Yeah.  Did you know that’s how he met your mom?”  I gave a sharp whip
of the wrist, sending the glistening lure through the air.  It met the
surface of the glassy pond with a tremendous splash.  I folded my legs
and watched the line intently.  We stared into the water, until I
slowly realized my cast had wrought nothing but silence and stillness.
I furiously withdrew the Spence-scout lure from the water.

“The Carp will never eat that.  The Carp is wiser than that.”  Doug
rose to his feet as he prepared to cast.  His wad of cheese sailed
through the air and hit the water with an awkward, but charming
“plop.”  I threw my pole to the ground and hollered.

“But this is one of the best lures my dad has!  He would be really mad
if he knew I was using it.”

“Alex, the lure may be expensive, but it isn’t tasty.  It’s a piece of
metal.  You can’t catch a fish with metal.  To catch a fish, you must
offer him something worth while in return.”  Doug stated as he wagged
his finger pretentiously.  I shook my head violently

“That’s not true.  It’s scented with rabbit blood.  They like that.”
Doug took a deep breath and turned his head to the sky.

“Alex, the African proverb says, ‘the empty hand is never licked.’
Think about it.”  Doug was satisfied with his wisdom as he wistfully
watched his line rippling in the water.

“I think you’re wrong.”  I crossly said.

We jumped to our feet as a hiss resounded from the water.  Doug
gripped his pole with intensity as a reptilian head lunged from the
deep.  The great Carp had obviously heard the proverb.

---

_This story is barely true.  There was a big carp in the lake by our
house, and Doug claimed to have gotten it to bite a few times.  But I
was never there to witness it.  I also wouldn't dream of taking my
dad's prized Spence-scout lure out of his tackle box.  As part of the
assignment, I had to incorporate a proverb, so the dialog is contrived
to do that._
