---
title: drag racing, windshield wipers, and alex's painting tips
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're still having a relaxing,
family-centered weekend amidst the end of the world. Rodney and I let
Marissa sleep in a bit, finishing up some yogurt, bananas, and toast at
the breakfast table. In about an hour from now once everyone is ready
for the day, we'll crash on the couch for remote church and coffee. It's
a nice morning.

Despite the pandemic, we're still hustling on the Recker family project
board. We had a tough time bouncing back after moving back into our
house. Whether we underestimated the amount of work it would take to
move everything back, or overestimated how much energy we'd have after
living in an AirBnB for a week, we didn't get anything done.

Working off the theory that our family's focus was split between too
many objectives - unpacking our stuff from the basement, cleaning our
old fish tank, preparing Miles' room, and renovating the basement to
become Marissa's art studio - we decided to focus on one thing this
week. Today, we have only one card remaining in the "WIP" column, all
the others stacked neatly in the "DONE" column. It's been a good week,
project wise.

Yesterday, I took a project card for swapping out our windshield wipers.
This card has been bouncing around in our miscellaneous deck for a
while, and proved to be more difficult than I expected. Marissa grabbed
the unopened replacement wipers from the basement. I brushed the dust
off and ripped open the plastic, unfurling the instructions onto the
dining room table.

"Look at this thing," I griped. "It looks like the instructions for
assembling a freakin' space ship." I growled, scanning over the tiny
paneled instructions. "I'll just wing it," I said, wadding up the
instructions and heading outside.

After wrestling with the wipers in the driveway for ten minutes, I
snapped the new pair over my knee and flung them into the garbage can.
This was partly because I was pretty sure they were the wrong size for
our car, but also because I was frustrated. "I'll swing by Auto Zone
while getting groceries, and I'm not leaving until these are fixed," I
said to Marissa while grabbing my keys.

My first stop was Home Depot. Later that evening, Marissa and I would
set out to paint a section of the basement ceiling, and we needed more
rollers. I dumped the paint rollers onto the checkout counter, and took
a step back to quietly sip on coffee.

"Are you a professional painter?" asked the employee. As my mouth was
filled with coffee, I only had time to shake my head *no*.

"Well you are now!" he laughed. I sheepishly smiled. *That didn't make
sense*, I thought. *Why couldn't he just say something normal to me,
like 'How is your day going?'*. Marissa often complains about the
invasive and nosy small talk she receives from the employees at Home
Depot, and I'm starting to think she's onto something. I've said it
before, and I'll say it again now - it's never OK to comment on what I'm
buying unless I invite you into it. If I was buying a pack of briefs,
would he have asked me if I was a professional underwear model?

I pulled out of Home Depot, then made my way further down the road to
the Auto Zone. The Auto Zone on East Wash is one of the sketchier repair
shops. I could have gone elsewhere, but Marissa and I have had a working
theory that the Auto Zone hosts drag racing at night, and I wanted to do
some field research.

"It definitely doesn't *feel* like an Auto Zone, right?" laughed Marissa
later that night. "There's always random people walking into the back
room."

"Yeah," I laughed. "And there are signs all over the parking lot about
loitering. I think we're onto something."

I walked into the store and found the windshield wipers. "So it's not as
straightforward as I thought," I said to Marissa with the phone to my
ear. "You should see this, there's like a phone book here where you have
to cross check the make, model, and year of your car with the right
brand and part number.

First, I found the rear wipers. "CRV… 2008… DURALAST… R26," I muttered
aloud. I found the part, then ripped it out of the plastic to compare it
with the one I ripped from the back of our car. It was a dead ringer.
Feeling more confident, I followed the same process for finding the
remaining two wipers.

Moments later, I threw everything onto the parking lot pavement and got
to work. The rear wiper snapped into place and swung smoothly against
the back window. So far so good. The front two wipers also snapped into
place, but the driver side wiper was raised off the windshield by a half
inch. It failed the wipe test, missing the entire windshield. I
reluctantly stuffed it back into the box walked back inside to exchange
it for another.

"Yeah," droned the employee. "Sometimes you just gotta try a different
brand. They're like… designed differently or something. I bet this will
work," he said handing me the new set.

*I hate cars*, I thought as I flashed a quick smile and headed back out
into the parking lot. The second replacement wiper worked, and I happily
peeled out of the Auto Zone parking lot.

My last stop before returning home was the grocery store. Hy-Vee was
already looking and feeling a lot more normal. While toilet paper and
hand sanitizer is still completely bought out, most of the food had been
replaced. I picked up some chicken, celery, carrots, onions, and chicken
broth.

Back at home, I started preparing chicken noodle soup while Marissa and
Rodney slept. I wrestled with the half frozen chicken thighs. Using my
knife to peel the tiny pieces of flesh off the bone, I felt like some
kind of frontiersmen cleaning a rabbit carcass for the fire. But as it
was all getting dumped into a soup pot anyway, I wasn't too concerned
about the little ice chunks in the meat.

We ate dinner, and after putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I headed
downstairs into the basement. She handed me a paint roller.

"Just want to set clear expectations," I opened. "I'm very bad at
painting. The level of quality you can expect from me is probably the
same you'd expect for… painting a sign for a high school pep rally."

The weird analogy made Marissa smile. "That's perfect. It's just the
ceiling, you can literally just throw it up there if you want," she
replied.

The longer we painted, the sillier things got. I started vocalizing a
pretend *Alex's Painting Tips* program. Here are some worthy sound
bytes.

> Welcome to Alex's painting tips, here's a tip! It doesn't matter how
> often you switch arms, sooner or later your whole body will burn.

> Welcome to Alex's painting tips, here's a free tip about avoiding big
> paint drops from the ceiling. You cannot avoid them, but at least they
> won't drip forever!

That one came out of me when a fat drop of white paint hit me in the
face, just missing my eye.

> Welcome to Alex's painting tips - how do you avoid spider webs? You
> can't, just grab your favorite spider brush and roll through them and
> hope for the best. It's their basement too, you know!

Later in the evening, as I was struggling to prop of my shaky arm to
reach the far end of the ceiling, something compelled me to start
singing *Deliver Us* from the *Prince of Egypt* sound track. Marissa
laughed and then together, we broke into song. "I bet the two of us
could sing that whole movie," I laughed.

"I guess that's going to be my movie pick tonight," said Marissa.

The basement ceiling looked pretty good. Marissa was following behind me
with a smaller brush to get the spots I missed. "I'm actually kind of
impressed, this looks really good," I said before heading upstairs. We
watched Prince of Egypt on the couch with drinks and snacks before
turning in for the night.

Thanks for stopping by this Sunday. Hope you have a great rest of the
weekend.

