---
title: marissa's gallery, food ruts, protests, and baking
image: posts/2020-04-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends!  I hope this Sunday morning finds you well, and
that you take some time to relax, eat a nice breakfast, and drink
plenty of fresh coffee before starting the day.  If only Rodney heeded
that advice.  The only thing he seems to be interested in eating are
last night's fresh peanut butter cookies that were sitting out on the
counter.  Then again, I was the one who caved, and put it on a little
plate for him.  Global pandemics, lockdowns, a dangerous and
unpredictable B-rated celebrity leading the country through it all -
compared to everything else going on, peanut butter cookies for
breakfast hardly sound crazy.

We had a great day yesterday.  Kicking the morning off by getting the
house ready for Marissa's art show.  As she scurried around the house
putting the final touches on her gallery, I set up Rodney's room for a
special edition extended quiet time, grabbing extra toys and even
setting him up with some _toddler radio_ on Pandora.  Rodney was so
eager to spend time in his room, he practically shoved me out the
door.

Before the gallery began, Marissa and I chatted.  "What if I just
casually referred to you as _fatso_?  Or what if we suddenly started
screaming at each other, I threw something, and then we just went
right back to normal?" I laughed.

Marissa smiled.  "It's fun to think about, isn't it?  So many people
show up to these things, I understand the temptation to do something
weird just to watch the reaction."

But Marissa respects her Instagram followers too much to mess with
them for her amusement, and I stayed on my best behavior.

And speaking of which, I thank everybody who hung out with us in her
live virtual art gallery.  The words of encouragement went a long way,
and we had a lot of fun putting this on.

After the cameras turned off, Marissa breathed a sigh of relief,
crashing on the couch with a handful of Easter candy.  I joined her on
the couch, flipping through YouTube videos.

I eventually climbed off the couch and got Rodney out of his room, and
the two of us wandered into the kitchen to make dinner.  I had started
another loaf of bread, but it wasn't working out.  The dough was too
gummy, and no matter how much I slapped it around in flour on the
counter, it wasn't getting even close to the smooth, shiny, rubbery
surface I was picturing in my head.  But Rodney happily helped me
grate cheese on seasonings onto the failed experiment, which luckily
masked the unappetizing, dried-out dough.

"I think I'm in kind of a rut," I said to Marissa who found her way
into the kitchen with us.  "The last few loaves of bread I tried
haven't worked out, and quarantine grocery shopping is really starting
to get to me.  I'm really struggling to find variety."  Marissa found
a seat on the counter and continued to listen.

"It sounds like you're just at a low point, and that's OK," she said.
"Let me know if there is anything I can do."

I had already begun to make red sauce from blended tomatoes, ground
beef, and onions.  I held my head over the Dutch oven and inhaled.
"Red sauce is my aroma therapy," I said.

Sensing my unrest, Marissa hung out in the kitchen while Rodney
fiddled around with kitchen utensils.  Specifically, he was trying to
skewer chunks of our burnt cheesy ciabatta bread at the end of a
turkey baster.  The spaghetti finished, and we ate together on the
back porch before heading inside.

"I'll put him to bed tonight," offered Marissa.  "Go for a walk or
something."

Taking Marissa's advice, I suited up in a mask and gloves and walked
to the nearby liquor store.  Since I last visited, they've added even
more protective measures.  There were large planes of thick Plexiglas
in front of each register, and the store was covered in signs that
tactfully advised customers _not_ to browse.  I hurriedly grabbed a
six pack of beer, a bottle of tequila, and a cold bottle of water for
Marissa.

When I returned, Marissa and I hung out on the back porch.  We both
had the coronavirus on our minds.

"I read about the Spanish flu today," she said.  "Did you know that
they threw parades in big cities when they thought it was over, and
that actually brought about the worst part of the outbreak?"

"That's terrible," I responded.  "And did you see these protests
happening?  It's ridiculous.  Can you imagine protesting a _virus_?
These people!  It's like if your house caught on fire, and you were to
stubbornly sit on your couch and refuse to let the fire _infringe on
your freedom_," I angrily shouted.  "But it's worse!  Because it's
hurting the people around them!  If only it was _just_ their house
burning down!"

The protests have me feeling discouraged, disappointed, and angry.
There's even one scheduled for Madison.  I don't know what's
compelling people to protest a virus.  It has nothing to do with
personal freedom, for God's sake.  Suck it up, and do your part in
keeping the people around you safe.

I took a few deep breaths and calmed myself.  "I'm worried I'm going
to drive by the protest while it's going on and recognize somebody.
Madison is not a very big town.  I don't think I'd be able to look at
person in the eye anymore."

Marissa and I relocated to the kitchen.  In preparation of my grocery
trip tomorrow, we cleaned out the fridge and cabinets and built a
grocery list.  She also baked a batch of peanut butter cookies.
Together, we hung out in the kitchen, chatting, baking, and snacking
on cookie dough.  The first batch came out of the oven, and overcome
by an impulse, I grabbed the bag of sugar and began dumping them on
the cookies.

"WOAH.  WHAT ARE YOU DOING," said Marissa, turning on her heels to
stop me.

"I'm sorry," I said apologetically.  "I just had an impulse.  I feel
very strongly that these cookies should be covered in sugar."

Marissa paused and bent down to study the cookie.  "You know, the
sugar is sticking pretty nice.  And it makes the fork pattern look
much prettier.  OK do the rest of them.  That was a good call."

I smiled and kept pouring sugar.

"It was _risky_!" she snapped again.  "But a good call..."

We started another batch of bread, too, copying the recipe from
Bruno's youtube video on homemade French bread.  Spending the night in
the kitchen hanging out and drinking beer put me in a good mood and
gave me enough resolve to try again.

"Let's not put any bread on the grocery list.  I'm banking on us
figuring it out," I said.  Marissa nodded.

"And if it doesn't work out, we always have speed bread," she said.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a good day
today.
