---
title: swirling oceans of garbage, home depot, and worm sauce
banner: 2020-03-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, my friends.  I hope you're feeling strong and confident
today.  If you're starting to feel a little stir crazy, try to remind
yourself that while we can't go to bars, restaurants, and parties,
there are still plenty of places to wander outside.  Sunshine has a
way of clearing your head, doesn't it?  And no matter what you're
feeling - no matter what you're going through - walking outside into
the sun is a good first step in dealing with it.

I had a great day yesterday.  This week, the smaller support tasks of
ticket duty are already starting to make the time fly.  I have a
feeling that I'm only a few waking sensations away from typing the
words _Good morning, and happy Friday_.  Smaller portions of work tend
to do that.

After attending our planning meeting in the morning, I wandered
downstairs to join Marissa in the kitchen.  I helped myself to a
stroopwaffel and a coffee refill.  By now, I've been working from home
long enough for new routines to emerge.  The 10 AM coffee refill and
sugar rush of a sweet, melty stroopwaffel might be my favorite
novelty.  I joined Marissa at the table for a coffee break, then
returned upstairs.

For lunch, I cooked a chicken breast in a pan and did my best to toss
some life back into the soggy chicken caesar salad that was
languishing in cold tupperware.  "I'll take one for the team and eat
the salad.  I can deal with soggy croutons," I said, dividing up the
fresh chicken for Rodney and Marissa.

I worked through the afternoon, and around 3:30, Marissa sent me a
slack asking if I felt like a walk.  I wrapped up work, and wandered
into the backyard to find Marissa and Rodney enjoying the warm sun.
Marissa left the garage door open, proudly displaying the compacted
cardboard boxes and neatly stacked styrofoam in the corner.  During
the quarantine, Madison has decided to close their garbage drop-off
center, and that decision continues to vex us.  But needless to say, I
was glad that Marissa tamed the growing, swirling ocean of loose
cardboard into something more manageable.  "Thank you for cleaning up
our swirling ocean of garbage," I said to her.  "That was starting to
stress me out."  Marissa flashed a smile and flexed.

We went for a walk around the block, and after finishing out the work
day, we all jumped in the car headed for Home Depot.  Marissa sent me
idiot proof instructions and screenshots, directing me to the wood
slats she needed to build some frames.  After dropping me off on the
curb, I wandered into the store, mindfully navigating my way to the
correct aisle while doing my best to avoid people.

I found the correct label for the slats she needed, but the labels
didn't perfectly line up with the stacks of wood, and the tall beams
were shuffled together.  Somebody who knew what they were looking for
probably wouldn't have a problem with this - just look through the
stack and find the proper slats, right?  Well it may come as a shock
to you, but I am not very handy.  In that moment, the entirety of my
woodworking knowledge was contained in a screenshot of my wife's
phone.

I grabbed eight slats of wood, and moved them to the table.  I began
sawing the first beam.  I had trouble getting the saw to cut, and I
began to feel self conscious.  From the corner of my eye, I could see
another burly, flannel clad guy sizing me up as I struggled to cut the
thin beams.  I grabbed another saw, proceeding more forcefully.  The
wood snapped in half.

"I think I did pretty good," I said to Marissa stacking the slats into
the car.  "They were all jumbled together, but I picked wood that was
the same color..." my voice trailed off, as I noticed I grabbed
several different shapes of slats.  There were four small ones, three
big ones, and one that looked nothing like the picture Marissa sent
me.  "OK, so maybe I didn't do so well."

Marissa studied the pile of slats.  "No this will work - you got at
least four of the slats I need.  I can work with this."

I nodded in gratitude.  "I can run back if you don't have enough - now
I know what to look for."

"Nope!  I got what I need - and I can still use the others for
something," said Marissa.  Hasn't it been said that a true craftsman
never blames her inept husband?

After returning home, we released Rodney into the back yard to burn
off some energy, and Marissa and I retreated into the kitchen, where I
began cooking dinner.  After my misguided adventure in Home Depot, it
felt good to be back in my natural environment.

Dinner was pasta with meat sauce.  I love making meat sauce.  We seem
to always have the right ingredients and spices on hand, and at this
point, I'm pretty sure I could whip it together in my sleep.  As I
stirred blended tomatoes into the fragrant beef and herbs, Marissa
watched Rodney out the window.

"Here he comes," she said, smirking.  "He's got something."

Rodney stomped up the porch steps and ran to the door, flinging it
open.

"MAMA.  LOOK!  I FOUND A WORM," said Rodney.  He held out his hand.
Unfurling his tiny fingers, he revealed a single thin earthworm
resting limply in his palm.

"Nice dude," said Marissa trying to minimize her disgust.  Rodney
turned toward me, holding out the specimen.

"That's awesome dude.  That's a nice one," I said kneeling down beside
him.  "Hey - question for you.  Would you mind if I added that to the
sauce?"  Rodney stared back at me, visibly confused.  I remained
committed to the rouse.

"Dude, we could always use the extra protein.  And it's red sauce,
you'll never know the difference.  C'mon dude... _waddya_ say.  Worm
sauce is _lekker_."

"NoooOOO _danks_," chirped Rodney, pulling the worm close to him in a
balled up fist.  Marissa and I erupted into laughter and Rodney
skipped away.

"Called your bluff!" I shouted after him.  Boys our gross, but mark my
words - I'll never be out-grossed.

We ate dinner together on the deck.  Bundled up in sweatshirts
feasting on oven warmed bread and pasta with meat sauce, we had no
problem braving the chilly evening air.  It was worth it, just to be
outside for a little longer.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful Tuesday.  I'll
see you tomorrow when we roll over into the month of April.
