---
title: power outages, yardwork, and video editing
image: posts/2020-06-08.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  This morning, we've been dealing with a short
power outage that started some time around 6 AM.  We were immediately
woken to the unsettling silence of the air conditioning shutting off
as well as the eerie medley of chirping from all the disconnected baby
monitors around the house.  In a sleepy haze, I immediately sprang to
my feet and walked straight over to my server wall.  "Oh," I said
after coming to my senses.  "I thought it was a computer problem.
Just a power outage."

Marissa and I helplessly shuffled around the house, eyeing the
powerless coffee maker in the corner.  It's really hard to wind up for
the day without coffee.  Nearly impossible.  For a minute this
morning, I actually contemplated just bashing some coffee beans with
my meat tenderizing hammer and soaking them in some hot sink water,
but by the time I was working up the nerve to try it, the power
clicked back on.

Marissa passed out on the couch, and as I waited for the first pot of
coffee to finish, I made my way upstairs to perform the two manual
actions required to turn the server wall back on: (1) pressing the
tiny button behind the external hard drive bay and (2) shorting the
two pins on the NAS motherboard with the tip of a screw driver.  The
commotion woke Rodney.

"Dada," he said with his head leaning out into the hallway.  "I'm
_hungry_."

I climbed back down from my chair and scooted it back up against my
desk.  I had woken up early, gone almost two hours in the morning
without coffee, and I hadn't even started my journal entry yet.  This
morning was thoroughly off the rails.

I smiled at Rodney.  "Want to make some French Toast?"

So that was our move today.  Rodney and I powered through the chaos of
this morning with some french toast made with stale french bread.  And
at almost 10:40 in the morning, I think I'm finally at the required
level of caffeine to process the day.  So here we go.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  Marissa slept in with Miles,
and I set Rodney up at the TV with a cereal bar, giving me plenty of
time to finish cleaning up the kitchen and bake a loaf of sourdough
bread.

In the sourdough bread department, I think it's safe to say that I'm
back in the swing of things.  Yesterday's loaf was a little dry and
dense, but had much better oven spring.  I have a feeling that I'm
getting to the point where I'll need to start measuring ingredients by
mass, instead of volume.  It's surprising how much variation you can
find packing flour into a measuring cup, especially in the summer
months, when the flour is extra pillowy in the humid air.

We had a lazy morning, drinking coffee, watching church on the couch,
and eating PB&J for lunch.  Afterwards, we headed outside as a family
to work in the yard.  Marissa planted flowers with Rodney, mowed, and
replaced the flimsy, broken awning of his sandbox with a much simpler
tarp stapled to the frame.

I helped trim some hanging branches off of a tree in our backyard.
Clearing the branches out was gratifying, and suddenly I got excited
about taking on the much taller tree hanging above our roof.

"Is that the branch, right there?" I asked Marissa, squinting through
the bright sunshine.

"Yep," said Marissa.  "It's probably going to fall soon, so I figured
it's better if we take it down on our own terms - especially with
Beverly's phone line running right underneath it.

"I can climb up on the roof," I suggested.  Marissa made a worried
face.

"I'm not sure that's a good idea," she said.  But I was already behind
the shed, clambering up to the roof with the help of our tree and the
Burger King fence.

"It feels pretty sturdy up here," I said, cautiously tamping my foot
on the roof.

"Ah...", sighed Marissa.  "Nope, this looks dangerous."  Rodney
emerged from his playhouse, craning his head to look at our shed roof.

"MAMA LOOK!" he yelled.  "DADA IS ON THE ROOF."

"It's not worth it hon - just jump down," said Marissa.

I began to climb down.  "Good call," I said, leaping off and landing
on the grass with a poised crouch.  "Rodney was starting to get ideas,
anyway."

"We'll hire the guys who did our old tree," said Marissa.  "They were
so quick, and just a branch won't cost much."

"That's a good idea," I replied.  "Because beyond just getting on the
roof, I really didn't have a plan."

We concluded our time outside by ceremoniously pulling up the burlap
that had been protecting our grass seed all last month.  Marissa
carefully peeled up the fabric.  I held my breath as the tiny grass
sprouts pulled taut, then slipped between the holes.

"Look at that," said Marissa proudly.  "The grass is so thick.  There
are barely any bald spots anymore!  I could cry I'm so happy."

"Our yard looks so open," I said.  "Look at how weird this all looks."

We ate dinner on the back porch.  I rubbed a chuck roast in garlic and
peppercorns and braised it in red wine.

I put Rodney to bed, and before wrapping up for the night, Marissa and
I did some video editing at my computer.  We were discussing a new
system of editing where Marissa works the trackpad so she can control
the video preview, and I handle the cutting and splicing from the
keyboard.

"Do you mind if I just use the trackpad like this?" asked Marissa.

"That's perfectly fine," I replied.  "Actually, now I literally only
need to press the _m_ key and the _split_ button on the touchbar."

"Oh, like this?" asked Marissa, tapping the button.

"Yep - it turns out editing is pretty easy," I laughed.

"I don't need you anymore," said Marissa, pretending to push me aside
and take over editing.  But even while pretending to take over, she
accidentally nudged the track pad, creating two extra cuts.

"Ope.  I broke something," she said.

"Ah, so sometimes I press a third key.  The _undo_ key," I said,
reaching over her to press _command-z_.

"I guess I still need you," she laughed.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful Monday.
