---
title: gitlab, chicken bones, and falling off bikes
banner: 2020-10-08.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  This morning, getting out of
bed was a real test of will power, and I almost failed.  I don't even
remember my alarm going off.  I think what _actually_ woke me up was
accidentally tapping a loud video ad from my twitter feed.  It took
some time, but I'm finally here at the computer, and I'm going to
cling to this cup of coffee as if it were the only thing keeping me
tethered to the world of the living.

It's a good day today.  We have a football game in the evening, and
we're going to order out for dinner tonight.  My hard drives also
finished copying, and I'm finally ready to re-roll our Plex server.
On top of everything, it's Thursday, and the week is almost over.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  I pretty much had the whole
morning and afternoon to dig into something that was fun and
complicated, and to round things off there were just a few meetings at
the end of the day.

One of these meetings was with a company named Gitlab, who is probably
the top competitor to github.  Their team is looking at ways to revamp
how they manage secrets, and they wanted to hear some stories about
what we've done with a product named Vault.

Isn't this a little too detailed?  Surely I'm violating some kind of
confidentiality agreement here, right?  Well, the really cool part
about Gitlab is that along with their code, they keep their
documentation, run books, research notes, and project tracking
completely open to the public.

"We even try to shy away from private slack messages," they explained.
"We are just obsessed with making everything at our company as freely
available as possible."

I envy that about Gitlab.  That attitude about transparency tickles
the spot in my heart where the liberal software hippie, the grounded
Midwesterner, and the vulgar Dutchman all converge.

"We gotta figure out how to do more of that," I said in our team's
private channel just before signing off for the day.

In lieu of casual last minute science class, Rodney and I quartered up
a chicken for the recipe Marissa was making that evening.

"Where is the head?" I asked.

"Right here," said Rodney, patting the top of the chicken with his
gloved hand.

"Nope," I replied.  "They cut it off."

"Cut it off?" he repeated.

"Yep," I nodded.  "Before you buy a chicken for food, they pull all
the feathers off, and the cut the head off."

"_Oh_, I get it," said Rodney, his voice trailing off.

We pulled off the skin, peeled back the bones, and piled the breasts,
legs, and the wings to the side of the cutting board.  Rodney scooped
up a pile of skin and fat, holding it out for Marissa.

"Momma," he said.  "These are the _bones_."  Marissa flinched,
watching with horror as juices dripped to the floor.

"We were just about to clean up," I said.  "I don't know why I thought
the latex gloves would help, he still just touched everything around
him."

To give Marissa space to cook, I decided to take Rodney and Miles for
a little walk up the street.  Rodney climbed on his bike, tagging
behind me and Miles' stroller.  Rodney insisted I hold his bike too.

"No, I can't dude," I said.  "I have to push Miles.  I'll grab you if
you need it."

"But I _need_ your help," he pleaded.  I walked ahead anyway, and
Rodney peddled faster, trying to keep up.  Only a few houses later,
Rodney forgot all about needing me to hold his bike.

"Dada," he said.  "I'm going fast - like _Blaze_."

"Oh _blaze_?" I asked.  "That's a new character, right?  From when you
play Nick Jr. on the computer?"

Rodney, feeling confident, raced ahead of me and Miles.  He lost
control of his bike and careened off the end of a driveway, rolling to
the pavement.  I locked Miles' stroller and rushed over.

"Are you OK dude?" I asked.  Rodney, sobbing, gingerly climbed to his
feet.  He rubbed his knees, wincing in pain.  We heard a screen door
creak open.

"Do you need a band-aid?" called out a neighbor from her front porch.

I turned and smiled.  "Oh thank you, but we're OK - no blood."

"I need a band-aid!" yelled Rodney.  "Please?  You get me a band-aid?"
If I had let Rodney take over, he'd have invited himself in, and also
asked for an ice-pack and some paw patrol fruit snacks.

Rodney didn't want to climb back on his bike.  We turned around and
walked beside it for a few houses.  I tried to encourage him to try
again.

"Falling is part of riding a bike, dude," I said.  "C'mon, what do you
think Spider-man would do if he fell?"

Rodney, looking more composed, rubbed his eyes and sighed.  "I know,"
he said.  "He'd shoot a web and swing back up."

I laughed.  "I was looking for _get back up_, but sure.  Maybe that's
more technically correct."  I scooped him up and placed him on his
bike.  "Now shoot a web, and swing back up, Spider-Man."

"Dada," said Rodney.  "I'm not Spider-Man.  I'm _baseball player_
Rodney."

Rodney forgot all about falling on his bike, and in no time he was
back to racing ahead of us.

"Dada, let's play a game," he said.  "I spy...".

He slowed his bike, swiveling his head, looking for something on the
street in front of us.

"I spy... a _motorcycle_," he said, finishing his thought.

I laughed.  "Is it... that motorcycle right in front of us - the one
parked at that house?"

"Yeah!" yelled Rodney.  "Good job!  OK your turn."

Marissa had dinner ready when we got home.  We had Jamaican braised
chicken in a brown sauce with rice.  Rodney finished his whole bowl on
his own.

"What was that dinner?" he asked while I was putting him to bed.
"That was _so_ delicious."

"Wasn't it tasty, dude?  Chef momma made that."

"I _really_ like it," said Rodney, his eyes bulging with excitement.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great morning, everyone.
