---
title: breakfast burritos, puff pastry, and the last dance
image: posts/2020-05-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  How's your week going so far?
All the clouds and rain we've been having create a different kind of
mood.  It's easier to lounge around and appreciate all the time in the
day, but it's hard to find the motivation to get things done.  Peeking
at the weather forecast, it looks like we'll get a short break from
the rain before heading into yet another long weekend of rain.  And as
always, Marissa and I come away from this looking like geniuses for
putting down new grass seed when we did.  I may even get out of this
without needing to water the grass myself.

_Sip_.  Can I tell you the tale of the greatest breakfast burrito ever
made?  Let me set the stage for you.  It's Sunday night, and while
cleaning out the fridge, I notice a giant dinosaur sized sirloin steak
thawing in the bottom drawer.

"Oh crap," I blurted out to Marissa from around the corner.  "I
totally forgot about this steak in here - I don't want that to go
bad."

And so, with only a half hour remaining in the evening before our TV &
bedtime, I flopped the gargantuan steak onto a plate and put a pan on
the stove.  I wildly chopped two onions and started heating olive oil
on full blast.  The steak touched down, and the searing began.

Soon, the onions joined.  I just love the smell of onions in olive
oil, and the aroma rushing out of the kitchen when combined with a
sizzling steak was enough to make Marissa peak her head through the
door out of curiosity.

"Are you making cheese steak?" she asked.  After flipping the steak
onto a plate and ducking underneath an open cabinet, I nodded.

"And we still have a package of cream cheese, too.  Finally I figured
out a way to use that," I said.

I cracked open the fridge door and dropped the little silver cube of
cream cheese onto the counter, unfurling the tinfoil wrapping.  There
was a gummy black substance caked around the outside.  I studied the
residue, then recoiled at the realization that this was mold - a lot
of it.

"GROSS!  Never mind - we're going to have to use - " my voice trailed
off as I scanned our fridge.  "Actual cheese!" I said, seeing the
ricotta and fresh ball of mozarella.  "I have a feeling this will be a
lot better than we're used to.  I don't think I've ever used good
cheese to make cheese steak."

Softened charred onions and sliced, dripping steak slid into the metal
mixing bowl, followed closely by a scoop of ricotta cheese and a
hastily ripped up ball of mozarella.  Lastly, I added chopped up scoop
of kimchi before shutting the lid tight and letting the heavenly
mixture set in the fridge.

The next morning, Rodney joined me in the kitchen to finish assembly.
As I scrambled some eggs in butter, sliced a quarter of cabbage, and
set aside some snipped chives, Rodney pulled his step ladder over to
the cabinet and proceeded to reorganize the cans.  I sighed, kicking
the metal cans away from my feet.  "Can you clean those up before we
eat, dude?" I asked as patiently as I could.

A scoop of cheese steak nestled beside pillowy scrambled eggs, then a
little handful of cabbage and a sprinkle of chives before getting
tightly rolled up in a tortilla and tinfoil and heated in the oven.  I
cut a burrito in half for Marissa and brought it to her.  She was on
the phone with someone, and hearing her get so distracted by the
burrito in her lap that she lost her place in the conversation was
almost as gratifying as actually eating it.

_Oof_.  Six hundred words in, and I've only covered breakfast.  This
is already a different kind of journal entry.  To sum up, it was the
greatest breakfast burrito ever made.  And after wrapping up lunch,
Rodney and I wrestled it off on the couch while watching zoo videos.
Things wound down, and Rodney pulled a blanket over our heads, making
a makeshift fort.  The dim lighting beneath the blanket set just the
right ambiance for an afternoon nap, and I dozed off, waking up a half
hour later to Rodney's foot in my face.  Rodney went down for an
actual nap, and I retreated upstairs for online French cooking class.

"How's the class going?" asked Marissa from the couch, holding Miles
as I came back down the stairs an hour later.

"It's getting a lot better," I replied.  "I was a little bored last
week, but actually trying one of the recipes got me excited about it
again.  Today was potato day."

For dinner, I made a rice pilaf with carrots, onions, and parsnips.
And I was grateful we still had thyme and fresh parsley in the fridge,
as it added a boost of flavor.  Rodney joined me in the kitchen again,
and after steering him clear of the delicate puff pastry pockets I was
cutting, I turned him loose onto the scraps.

"I have a _really_ important job for you, dude," I said leaning in
like I was telling him a secret.  "Look - I need you to get all this
into a big ball."  I squeeze the scraps together with cupped hands.
"Then I need you to use this rolling pin and flatten it out.  When
you're done, I need you to roll it into a ball again."  Rodney's eyes
widened as he reached for the rolling pin.  I had him in a classic
_Rodney distraction loop_, and the perpetual decoy bought me enough
time to finish my puff pastry pockets, which I filled with leftover
breakfast burrito stuffing.

After getting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I tidied up the house and
sunk into the couch with beers in hand.  "Are you ready for _THE LAST_
episode of the _Last Dance_?" I announced into our dimly lit living
room.  "I'm pretty excited about this arc.  I was 8 during the '98
championship, so I actually remember a lot of it.  I remember hating
Karl Malone.  Oh, and I remember my parents making fun of how John
Stockton looked like a little boy."

_The Last Dance_ has been a wonderful quarantine distraction.  While
I'm sad to see it end, I guess there's no reason why we can't just
watch it again.

Thanks for stopping by this morning, everyone.  Hope you have a
wonderful day today.
