---
title: wednesday, donald trump, finger paints, and sunsets
image: posts/2020-03-25.png
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're doing well today.  A few days ago
I stumbled onto this [article].  A professor from the University of
Virginia is trying to get his students to keep daily journals of life
during the coronavirus pandemic.  I looked into him a bit.  He makes
the case that this is why the diary of Anne Frank was so moving.  I've
never read it myself, but he says because it's written from the
mundane perspective of a little girl, that makes it an even more
valuable and useful perspective into the holocaust.

Over the past few days, I've been thinking about my role in the
pandemic.  Taking Dr. Braun's advice to heart, I'm trying to focus on
how our daily life has been impacted by the pandemic, and so far it's
been very personally therapeutic.

I think another small way I can serve my community of readers is by
doing what I can to make each day feel different.  I've heard lots of
light hearted complaints from the people around me about how each
weekday feels the same.  One twitter meme quipped _do we even use days
of the week anymore, or do we just call every day "day"_.  It's a
minor gripe that's easy to make light of, but I think there's some
genuine turmoil underneath.  Days that feel the same are maddening,
and I think over time, that would make me feel very sad and depressed.

I'm here to help.  So if you'll excuse me, I need to take a minute to
occupy my new role as the official day of the week hype man:

Today is Wednesday.  Wednesday is an exciting day because it's half
way through the work week.  In my old life, I used to work from home
on Wednesdays, and I would take Marissa and Rodney out to pizza for
lunch.  I would drink a beer with lunch, and after lunch, Marissa
would nap on the couch, and I'd finish my work day in the living room
while watching one of the following movies: _Mad Max: Fury Road_ and
_Venom_.

On Wednesday, I'd usually feel like cooking a big meal and making a
big mess in my kitchen.  Wednesday is a good day to fry fish or
potatoes, because on Wednesday night I clean like nobody's business.
I empty out the fridge and completely wipe down all the shelves, and
when I put everything back, I turn the labels so they're facing out.
"I like to _advertise_ the food in our fridge," I tell Marissa, and
she laughs because that's kind of a vapid reason to spend so much time
on it.

Finally, after cleaning the kitchen like a mad man, I'd crash on the
couch, and Marissa and I would watch something on TV.  I might feel a
little behind for the week, as Wednesday always tends to sneak up on
me, but at least on some subconscious level I feel like all the
penitent scrubbing and cleaning I've done in the kitchen has washed
away the twinge of guilt I felt for not getting as much done on Monday
and Tuesday as I should have.

_Sip_.  Are you ready for a fast topic shift?  It's all related in my
head - just part of me thinking about my small role as a Recker family
record keeper during this troubling time in history.

I think Donald Trump is an idiot.  He's an evil idiot, and I think it
was a bad idea to elect him as President.  Maybe his poor response to
the coronavirus will be the only thing remembered about his
Presidency, but know that Donald Trump sucked before the coronavirus
too.  I'll remember Donald Trump as the idiot that made fascism cool
in America.

I think Donald Trump is evil, but it upsets me how he's not very good
at it.  His father was evil much like the alien from _Alien_ was
evil - evil _and_ an effective, monstrous predator.  But Donald Trump
makes me especially angry because he's completely insulated from even
the wrong side of history.  Donald Trump is like a pimple on the ass
cheek of the alien from _Alien_.  If Donald Trump's father is Will
Smith, Donald Trump is Jaden Smith, and his presidency is Jaden
Smith's rap career.

_Sip_.  That was liberating.  If you're close to me, you might now
that my politics can get a little nuanced, but I feel a sense of duty
to at least write down some of what I think.  Today is just the
basics: Donald Trump sucks.  And now that I got that out of my system,
let's get this journal entry back on the rails.

I had a wonderful day yesterday.  While I worked upstairs, Marissa
painted with Rodney at the dining room table.  About an hour later, I
heard them giggling and thumping up the stairs, and barging into my
room was Rodney - hands, arms, and face completely coated in green
paint.

"Dada - I'm the _green glob-lin_," said Rodney, flashing me a paint
smeared smile.

"Dude, you look awesome right now," I replied.  Marissa handed me her
phone, showing me a hilarious series of photos, telling the story of
how an orderly and constructive home painting activity turned into
finger painting with faces.

After Rodney's bath, I took a break to make some lunch with Rodney.
Together we cut into my leftover ciabatta bread and made some peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches.  My peanut butter and jelly sandwiches
taste the best because I smear a little pad of butter underneath the
jelly.

I worked through the afternoon, then wandered down into the basement
to play video games with Rodney.  During this pandemic, afternoon
video games has kind of become our little routine.  We played _Skate_,
then a little of _Need for Speed_.

Rodney, Marissa, the dogs, and I jumped in the car and drove to
Culver's.  We ordered some food, then found a quiet spot in the
parking lot to eat.  It felt so good to get out of the house together,
and it's funny how even though the sun was setting over the crummy,
empty East Town Mall parking lot, it was still captivating.  We
marveled at it all the same, as if the sun were setting on the grand
canyon.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today.  Don't let the virus get
you down, and take a few moments today to write something down about
your life.  Happy Wednesday, friends, and I'll see you tomorrow.

[article]: https://news.virginia.edu/content/write-it-down-historian-suggests-keeping-record-life-during-pandemic
