---
title: the green dinosaur, facebook, and pooping michael jordan
image: posts/2020-05-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I'd like to congratulate you on making it
through another week.  Happy Friday.  Things have been pretty crazy
lately, and tonight, I hope you can wind down with good company, good
food, and good drinks - preferably drinks with alcohol in them, if
that's what you're into.  Personally, I'm planning on making a
noticeable dent in a bottle of port that's been sitting out on our
kitchen counter.  I've been waiting until we have some good cheese in
the house.

_Sip_.  So how is everyone feeling today?  I have lots of energy
today, and that's no doubt a result of how _little_ we did yesterday.
Knowing the weather would be crummy and Rodney would be cooped up
inside, we nabbed a silly little inflatable dinosaur from Target and
let him open it in the morning.  And even though the dinosaur unboxing
made for a great photo op, it wasn't a big part of Rodney's day.  The
second it was all out of the box and blown up, Rodney left the
dinosaur in the corner of the play room and went on with his aimless
day.

"He didn't even name him," says Marissa.  "But before going to bed
last night, he said _I love him_."  Talk about mixed feelings.

With the lonely, nameless green dinosaur pushed aside in the corner,
Rodney and I hung out on the couch and watched a movie.  Against
Rodney's wishes, I put on the movie _Aladdin_, hoping to break Rodney
out of his _Blippi_ and _Paw Patrol_ rut.  And every fifteen minutes
while the old Disney classic played, Rodney would quietly get my
attention and ask "Dada - I wanna be all done with movie now.  We
watch _Patrol_ now?"

He repeated the question word for word every fifteen minutes for the
entire.

"Dada - I wanna be all done with movie now...," said Rodney again.  I
looked up, and laughed, seeing the movie was over and the credits were
playing.

"OK dude," I said, "_Now_ you can be all done."

As Rodney reluctantly sat through my movie pick, I worked on some code
on my laptop.  Every morning, when I'm all done writing my journal
entry, I run a little script that automatically blasts my latest entry
out to Slack and Twitter.  But the script doesn't work with Facebook -
so far, I've had to just log into Facebook and post it the old fashion
way.

Well yesterday, with lots of time in the morning, I wrote the code to
automatically post to Facebook.  With each successful smoke test and
dry run, my dream of running a script and immediately walking away
from the computer every morning was becoming a reality.

As a final step, I needed to generate an access token so my app could
talk to Facebook.  I fumbled around in the Facebook web interface.  My
self satisfied grin turned to a grimace.  Surely a hip, young
technology professional like myself should be able to figure out
_Facebook_, of all things, right?

I swallowed my pride and just googled it.  In order to get an access
token with the right permissions, I needed to have my script
_verified_ through Facebook.  This can be done if you tie it to a
business - all other venues of getting verified were suspended during
the pandemic.

And to further sour my first Facebook developer experience, somehow I
accidentally managed to log into my old Facebook account that I
permanently deleted last year.  Not so _permanent_ after all, it would
seem.  I was right back in my old account, and there was even a cheery
_Welcome Back_ email sitting in my Inbox.

_Sip_.  Facebook sucks, doesn't it?  You know, I read somewhere that
social media platforms are kind of naturally anti-competitive.  People
don't shop around for social media platforms like they shop around for
cars, scrupulously comparing features and reviews.  We just want to
use what everyone else is using, and I think that's why Facebook can
get away with being so horrible.  If there are any readers out there
that enjoy explaining economics, I'd be interesting in hearing a free
market perspective on this.

For lunch, Rodney and I cooked a quick batch of chicken noodle soup
using leftover chicken breast in the fridge.  Marissa had waffles
instead.

"I feel like I set a bad example not eating soup with you guys," said
Marissa after gobbling up the last bite of golden yellow Eggo waffles
on her plate.

"It's OK," I said.  "As long as you're nursing, you get a free pass.
Plus, you can heat up what's left later if you're still hungry."

My real motivation for making soup was to help Rodney's digestive
system.  Yesterday was, as we refer to every third day, _poop day_.

"How you feeling dude?" I asked, leaning into Rodney's personal bubble
while he slurped soup from his spoon.  "How's your _tummix_ dude?  Feel
like something's happening?"

"Yeah!" Rodney replied enthusiastically.  "_Tummix_ feels good, Peter
Parker."

These days, I feel like we are so hell bent on sealing the final
daunting chapter of Rodney's potty training journey, that we're
cultivating a house that is obsessed with poop.  Yesterday, we read
the _Poop Book_ several times.  I played every poop song I could find
on YouTube.  Rodney spent his entire quiet time without any bottoms
on - a style one might refer to as _Whinnie the Pooh'ing It_.  All the
while, I sat outside his room in my chair, paying close attention
every sound and smell coming out of his cracked door.

As we do on every poop day, Marissa and I scoured the Internet for
potty training tips, tricks, and encouragement.  I sent her a helpful
comment I found on reddit.

> Your job isn't really to "get him there" so much as it is to support
> him as he figures it out, keep the stress level low, keep him from
> tying himself up in knots about it.

We've been doing a better job keeping things positive.  We keep
Rodney's spirits up with chants and songs.  We've adorned the toilet
with chocolate, candies, and unopened toys.  It's helped picturing
myself as kind of a poop coach, and my job is to keep Rodney feeling
strong and motivated.  I'm like a pooping Phil Jackson, and my
pantless son is a young, developing pooping Michael Jordan.

We made good progress yesterday.  We're still a bit far off from
cracking champagne bottles in the locker room, but it's worth
celebrating that Rodney doesn't seem scared anymore.  Talking about
poop no longer frightens him.  I even caught him thumbing through the
poop book on his own.  I have a feeling that very soon, he'll realize
that he's the greatest pooper the world has ever seen.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Friday, everyone.
