---
title: swearing, rice lunch, and small writing
image: posts/2020-07-17.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to Friday.  I don't know what kind of
work week you've had thus far, but the important thing is that it's
over, and you can officially begin your coast into the weekend.

It's a typical morning here on the homestead.  Rodney is sitting at a
table for one with a single cereal bar and a cup of milk laced with a
tablespoon of stool softener.  To appease his super hero fantasy, in
which I have been promoted to _Captain America_, I'm carrying around
our heavy cast iron Dutch Oven lid to act as my shield.  Captain
America may not be my favorite super hero, but it beats being
_Shredhead_ or Super Hero Rodney's butler.

_Sip_.  I had a relaxing day yesterday.  By some miracle, Rodney
amused himself thoroughly enough for Marissa and I to both spend all
morning doing our own thing, respectively painting and working on code
at the dining room computer.  I hacked on my journaling framework,
rewriting my CSS to be a little cleaner, and I also added a "bad
words" counter to the statistics page.  On each build, the code will
scan every journal entry and count the number of times I've said words
like _shit_ (6 times), _crap_ (12 times), _ass_ (8 times), and _hell_
(23 times).  Spreading that out over 390,000 words, that's a pretty
mild swearing habit if you ask me.

Rodney still asks me about swearing.  Even after Marissa and I dropped
the parental hammer and banned the word _sucks_ from Rodney's
vocabulary, the little _s_ word still leaps into his brain and prompts
further discussion.

"Dada," said Rodney, breaking my long stare out the window while
waiting for him to finish his food.  "Why I can't say _sucks_?"

"That's not a _Rodney_ word," I replied.

"I said _sucks_ when I got a lil' poke," said Rodney, folding his
hands underneath his chin.

"That's right," I said, crossing my arms.  "Mom and I let you say it
once after your shots.  Because shots _suck_.  But Rodney can't say it
whenever he wants."

Rodney stared blankly, blinking his big doughy eyes.

"You can say _Holy Cow_, at least you got that one," I said, trying to
cheer him up.

Rodney pushed his fork around his plate.  "Holy Cow," he whimpered.

I think we should all be a little more open and honest about swearing.
I've never met anyone who hasn't _eventually_ swore around me, and I
think the moment you feel comfortable enough with someone to have a
slip of the tongue should be celebrated.  Swearing isn't about words
we shouldn't say - it's about the people we feel comfortable enough to
swear around.  Swearing is the salt of our language - you can overdo
it, but God forbid we cut it out all together.

And speaking of salt, somehow over the course of the week, we ended up
with three different types of rice leftovers stored in our fridge.  We
had Monday's rice sausage pilaf - mellow and comforting.  Tuesday was
Wingstop leftovers fried rice, in which I tried to redeem our
questionable Monday lunch hot wing binge by chopping up the leftovers
with garlic, red onion, and cabbage.  Lastly, Thursday was paella.
Even though we had paella for Rodney's party a short weekend ago,
there's a distinct difference between politely eating paella at a
party and wolfing down a whole cast iron pan alone like you're on your
way to the electric chair, and we thought we had missed out on the
latter.

"This is _rice lunch_," I said, setting the table with leftovers.
"Three types of rice, and we need to eat it all today."

{% include figure.html filename='rice-lunch.jpg' caption="Missed out
on an opportunity to taste these all combined in a single trough.  I
bet fried Wingstop paella pilaf would have been exciting." %}

Marissa excused herself from the table and headed back into the
studio, and I flicked through reddit on my phone while waiting for
Rodney to finish.  I stumbled on a thread about writing advice.

"Big events make for small writing," read one comment.  "Don't try to
write about _war_ - write about the kid whose socks were burned while
trying to run away."

Isn't it a great feeling when someone else puts words to a growing
agitation you have?  Out of all the journal entries, the hardest ones
to write are the ones that follow _big events_ - parties, weddings,
and special occasions.  The next morning, I get out of bed on time,
brew a fresh pot of coffee, and open a new text buffer only to find
the word well empty - no matter how full my heart was the night
before.

Don't get me wrong - I still write.  I write even if it's bad, or I'm
not feeling it.  But the advice I read rings true - the writing that
is closest to my heart is small writing.  I love writing about things
that, unlike a big party or a special occasion, nobody would ever
remember unless you had written about it.

For dinner, we took a drive out to the near west side.  Marissa's
favorite pizza place built a new location that was closer to us that
still had safe outdoor seating.  And maybe it was because we hadn't
eaten out anywhere in several months, but yesterday it was my favorite
pizza place too.  We found a serene shaded table on their empty patio
that was nestled perfectly beside a busy road.  Marissa brought our
cold beers to the table.  We clinked bottles.

"Wait, can we do that again?" said Marissa getting out her phone.  I
reluctantly held my bottle out.

"Right there - hold it," she said.

"This is so embarrassing," I chided.  "We totally look like millenials
right now."

"There's nobody here," laughed Marissa.  "And it's a good picture,
you'll thank me for it."

{% include figure.html filename='cheers.jpg' caption='OK fine - it is
a good picture.' %}

A masked waitress cautiously brought us our pizzas and we began
eating.

"So it's been a while since we had _Novanta_," said Marissa.  "What do
you think about it."  I had already finished a slice, and there was a
little pile of mushrooms on my plate that I had pushed off the pizza
with a fork.

"I think I finally figured out why I don't like mushrooms on pizza," I
said.  "I think they are added to the pizza raw, and the short time in
the oven isn't enough time to cook them.  They kind of taste like
lukewarm water in my mouth."

"Ah sorry about that," said Marissa.  "She said it was their most
popular pizza."

"Hey - I was the one that just said _surprise me_," I laughed.  "But
can we talk about this dough?  And the sauce?  My god, this pizza is
delicious."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Friday, everyone.
