---
title: riots, picnics, baby ducks, and half-dead shrimp
image: posts/2020-05-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone, and happy Sunday to everyone reading.  This
morning, Rodney, Ziggy, and I are hanging out on the couch.  While
Rodney is taking in some Sunday morning Paw Patrol, I'm catching up on
all the events that took place yesterday in Madison.  There was a
peaceful protest for the slaying of George Floyd yesterday, and
shortly after dinner, things took a violent turn.  I read that almost
every shop on state street was looted.  I saw a video of a burning cop
car and police spraying tear gas in the streets.  Last night on the
police scanner, I heard that a truck full of men carrying rifles was
spotted passing by our house and headed downtown.  From what I can
tell, the carnage continued late into the night, spilling over into
both of our shopping malls.  Things are serious - so much so, that our
mayor declared an emergency curfew tonight.

The protest was a strange backdrop to an otherwise wonderful day.  In
the afternoon, Marissa, Rodney, Miles, and I packed up the car and
drove to Pet World to buy our first saltwater fish.  Marissa made a
point to drive by the capitol so we could see things warming up.

"Oh, it's so eerie," said Marissa as we rambled down the road.
"Everyone in masks - evenly spaced - walking up the hill towards the
capitol."

"These are weird times," I added.

Traffic was blocked off around the square, and we were quickly
diverted far from the action.  We didn't see much, but as we turned
away from the capitol, we could hear the faint cadent murmur of
protesters.  We didn't get any noteworthy pictures, but as with all
protests around the capital, local photographer [Ken Fager] was there
to get some excellent shots of what we drove by yesterday.

Marissa took Rodney into _Pet World_, and an hour later they returned
with a bag of live rock and a new cleaner shrimp - officially our
first saltwater tank creature.

"The fish guy said these are good to have in a tank.  They're more
sensitive to water quality than fish are, so they give you a chance to
fix things before all your fish die," explained Marissa.

Rodney cradled the plastic bag in his lap with the same delicate care
he uses to hold baby Miles.  He scolded Marissa at the wheel each time
the car hit a speed bump.

"Careful Momma," he said.  "Don't shake _my new friend_."

{% include figure.html
caption="Rodney holds up our new friend for an indifferent Miles"
filename="new-shrimp.jpg" %}

Back at home, Marissa began the elaborate acclimation process for
which she had been briefed at _Pet World_.  As Rodney and I napped,
Marissa slowly added our water to the crimped plastic bag left to
float just underneath the lid, allowing our new friend to slowly
adjust to the salt and temperature of our carefully curated tank.

"I waited for you guys to wake up before officially dumping our shrimp
into the tank," said Marissa waking us up.  Rodney eagerly grabbed his
little blue chair and stood beside the tank for the ceremonious pour.

"Welcome to your new home, _Stephane_," said Marissa tipping the
plastic bag.  The delicate shrimp rolled out of the bag, bobbing to
the bottom of the tank and assuming a very disciplined pose.

Leaving our new shrimp to get acclimated in our new home, we jumped in
the car and drove to the Biergarten, which was open to the public in a
limited capacity.

"You are not allowed to sit and drink beer," Marissa explained.  "But
you can buy dinner from them and eat it by the lake."

We parked at the biergarten just as the sun was starting to set over
the lake.  The cool breeze washing over the water felt refreshing, even
while I was lugging Miles' car seat through the dusty, arid parking
lot.  Standing at a distance, Marissa collected three cardboard boxes
filled with hot dogs, brats, cookies, and beer that we were _not_
allowed to drink.

"So they hand us two ice cold beers, then send us off to go _not_
drink them by the lake," I said raising an eye brow.

"Correct.  And all these people are definitely _not_ drinking the beer
either," said Marissa motioning to the disparate clusters of people
lounging on picnic blankets.  The orange light from the setting sun
glinting sharply off beer cans made it pretty easy to see what was
actually going on.  We found an open spot under a tree to set up our
blanket, and we joined our fellow Madisonians in eating and _not_
drinking beer.

{% include figure.html
filename="lake-picnic.jpg"
caption="Reminder: Marissa is not drinking that beer." %}

"I forgot how cool it gets by the lake," I said with a shiver.  "We
clearly haven't done the biergarten in a while - we look like newbies
or something."

We feasted on to-go biergarten food and snacked on some gold fish
crackers we brought in our personal stash.  The only thing decorating
the vast blue cloudless sky was a pale half moon and a few airplanes
landing at the nearby air port.

{% include figure.html
filename="lake-thumbs-up.jpg"
caption="A 'thumbs up' is a great move if you don't know what to do with your hands in a picture, isn't it?" %}

After we finished eating, we let Rodney wander off to look at the
water, instructing him to stay away from people.  "Make sure you
socially distance yourself, dude," I advised him, trying to make light
of it.

"It's kind of nice that we can let him do this on his own now," I said
turning to Marissa.  "Remember when he was two, and he would throw a
fit when we didn't let him look at the ducks?"

"He used to just take off from the sandbox and try to run right in the
water," laughed Marissa.

Rodney ran back to our blanket.  Out of breath, he reported that there
were baby ducks in the water.  I joined Rodney at the spot he found.
Sure enough, there was a mother duck nestling several baby ducklings
on a rock, shielding them from the choppy lake water.

{% include figure.html
filename="lake-ducks.jpg"
caption="Rodney bravely risks his dry pair of pants to make new friends." %}

Unbeknownst to us, as we were snapping pictures of Rodney with the
baby ducks in front of the lake, the sunset, and the majestic Madison
capitol, the protests we had driven by earlier that afternoon were
starting to get violent.  It's possible that across the lake from us
at that very moment, windows were shattering and tear gas was starting
to be released.

{% include figure.html
filename="lake-smiles-with-mom.jpg"
caption="An equally eerie and beautiful moment, isn't it?" %}

I put Rodney to bed, and Marissa and I met on the back porch for a
beer.  Marissa joined me a few minutes later than usual.

"I think our shrimp is dead," she said with a long face.  I sighed.

"How do you know?" I asked.

"Here, come look" said Marissa beckoning me inside.  She lowered the
brush into the tank and gave the stoic shrimp a nudge.  His rigid body
turned on its side.

"It's _so_ dead," she said.  "What are we going to tell Rodney?

We returned to the porch, pacifying our anxiety with beer and google
searches.  Surprisingly, we found lots of stories of shrimp _acting_
dead, then springing to life several hours later.

"So to be fair, we _don't actually know_ if he's dead.  I think there
are enough stories of shrimp acting dead during acclimation that we
can't actually declare him dead yet."

"So we're not actually lying to Rodney either," said Marissa.

"Exactly," I said raising a finger.  "The shrimp is neither alive, nor
dead.  The shrimp is _half dead_."

This morning, our story is that the shrimp is _sick_.  Later today,
we'll take the shrimp back to _Pet World_ so they can sample our
water, and hopefully replace our half-dead shrimp.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful day today, and
stay safe out there.

[Ken Fager]: https://imgur.com/gallery/Cx8zyhx
