---
title: k'nex, grilled cheese, and polishing a bowling ball
image: posts/2020-07-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, my friends.  I hope the day is treating you well so
far.  I had a much different morning than I'm used to.  I decided to
devote the entire morning to mine and Rodney's secret construction
project.  This morning, we put the final touches on our k'nex crane -
over 800 pieces, standing just shy of three feet.

Yesterday, Rodney and I ripped open the box minutes after the package
was left on our porch.  Marissa stepped past our heaping pile of
colorful sticks, snaps, and rubber gears.

"Miles is sleeping, I'll feed him when I get home," said Marissa as
she absent-mindedly scanned the room for her keys.  "You can hold down
the fort?"

I looked up at her from my squatted seat on the living room carpet.
"You mean, can I just hang out here and play with K'nex and watch
Batman?" I asked.  "I think I can handle that."

Understandably, Rodney's enthusiasm dissipated in the early stages of
construction.  He found a more comfortable seat on the couch, leaving
me to the menial task of counting and sorting the pieces.  After about
an hour, the crane began to take shape, and as I snapped the base and
neck of the crane together, Rodney had a renewed interest in the
project.  By the time Marissa got home, we had two of the rotating
gears in place.

"You guys made good progress," chuckled Marissa.  I grunted, pulling
my cramped, curled legs out from underneath me.  "My back is a little
sore, but it was worth it.  I think Rodney is really fired up about
it."

"Did you have fun too?" she asked.

"Are you kidding me?" I laughed.  "Watching _Batman_, playing with
K'nex on the floor - I pretty much felt like I was seven years old
again."

Normally, I don't like the idea of imposing my own sense of nostalgia
on Rodney.  I'd like to leave plenty of room for him to find his own
hobbies and interests without needing to sift through mine.  But I
made an exception for K'nex, because they're awesome.  Much sturdier
than LEGO's, I find K'nex make for better towers, bridges, and cars.
The pieces snap together much more tightly, and creations can survive
one or two tumbles down a flight of stares without needing to be
utterly rebuilt from scratch.

"I used to have an 8 foot long roller coaster in my basement," I
bragged to Marissa.  "I made a remote controlled robot that shoots
rubber bands, and one time I made a replica of the Eiffel Tower that
touched the ceiling."

Meanwhile, Marissa was surfing around on Ebay.  "Is this the Roller
Coaster you had?" She asked.  "You know we could be in for a long
quarantined winter.  It might be a good idea to stash a few other sets
in the basement to surprise Rodney."

Rodney went down for a nap, and I moved into the kitchen to begin to
prep dinner.  Later that evening we would be meeting Alex and Cassie
at the biergarten, and I promised to make my best double grilled
cheese sandwich.  After donning a mask and gloves, I shredded an
entire block of Wisconsin cheddar and sliced a fresh loaf of [krang
bread] into thick, rustic pieces.  I melted a chunk of butter in olive
oil, carefully laying all four sandwiches in my pan and gently
smashing them under a cast iron skillet.  The smell of sizzling
cheddar lured Marissa into the kitchen.

"Those look good," she said, watching me carefully flip the sandwiches
at the end of a spatula, the crispy bread making a gentle splash in
the oil.  "Are you doing cheese on the outside too?"

"Of course," I laughed.  "For Alex and Cassie, they get fried cheese
on _both_ sides."

{% include figure.html
filename='grilled-cheese.jpg'
caption='Grilled cheese, especially in Wisconsin, is no joke.' %}

We met Alex and Cassie, laying our opposite facing blankets in a shady
spot in the grass.  We drank bier, had our fill of Gazpacho soup and
grilled cheese sandwiches, and for dessert, Alex treated us to
homemade carrot cake.  We laughed, watching Rodney lick all the
frosting off of his cake with his face pressed to the plate, and that
led us to telling a few more Rodney stories.

"Do you guys think we talk about our kids too much?" asked Marissa.  I
nodded.  "That's something we're conscious about, especially around
people that don't have kids."

"Not at all," said Cassie quickly.

"I mean, we're already invested in the characters," laughed Alex.
"And we're interested in your perspective, like, what's it like taking
care of a baby?  Is it a lot of work?"

"This one's not actually that bad," I said gesturing at Miles.  "I
feel like we're at the point now where it's just diapers and new
changes of clothes.  And Miles is really spitty, so we have to clean
his head a lot."

"You mean like a _bowling ball_?" asked Alex, without skipping a
beat.  He motioned a back and forth towel motion with his hands, like
how you would polish it with a towel.  We erupted in laughter.

"Actually, yes.  It's kind of like cleaning a bowling ball," I
replied.  "See, we're interested in your perspective on kids too."

We stayed at the biergarten, talking over drinks until the sun began
to set.  By the end of the evening, plastic silverware, rocks, sand,
and ripped up napkins were scattered all over our blanket along with
Rodney's toys and markers.  "You guys go ahead," said Marissa.  "We're
going to be here a while anyway."

After we had cleaned up our mess, we snapped a few pictures in front
of the sun that was setting over the lake.  "We live in a beautiful
city," said Marissa.  "And we have good friends too."

{% include figure.html
filename='miles-sunset.jpg'
caption='Someone grab the towel - his head could use another polish.'
%}

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day.

[krang bread]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/krang-bread/
