---
title: snuggling, cleanliness, energy, and pinball
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Tuesday, and welcome back to the work
week. This morning was kind of a strange morning - I woke up when it was
still dark outside, and assuming I had more hours of sleep, I got up to
get a drink of water, running into a dog crate on the way to the
bathroom. The clattering metal scared the dogs out of bed, then seeing
me walking around, they immediately assumed it was their breakfast time.
So they excitedly followed me as I sleepily trudged to the bathroom.
Before climbing into bed, I saw on my phone that it was 6:10 AM - a mere
twenty minutes before my alarm normally wakes me for the workday. In
defiance to Tuesday mornings everywhere, I gently dragged Ziggy from her
spot at the foot of our bed all the way to my side, sharing my pillow
with her. I spent the duration of my twenty minutes of freedom snuggling
with her. Sure - I could have gotten up early, and maybe did something
artsy like sip coffee and stare out the window at the sun coming up. But
time spent with your dogs is never time wasted.

But now the time for snuggling has ended, and I'm back in the swing of
things. Walking around my house this morning, I couldn't help but feel
satisfied. Marissa and I spent some of last night catching up on chores
and tidying up the house, and that time was well spent. This morning,
basking in the cleanliness of our kitchen, living room, dining room, and
even our basement, it all made me think of a new Dutch phrase I learned
earlier this week: *Alles staat op zijn plek*, meaning *Everything
stands in its place*. Everything was right where it should be, and even
though I haven't even left the house yet, I can't wait to return.

And even though we have a shorter week ahead of us, it will be a busy
one, and I feel the need to savor every minute I feel motivated to do
something. Speaking of winter more generally, finding energy to do
things is practically impossible. There's so much to do, and all the
while every fiber of your mammalian body is just telling you to load up
on carbs and sleep. That's at least how I've felt all winter - like a
reluctant, hungry bear. So I think it's pretty rare that I'm feeling
energetic. I wish I could save off that feeling for later.

Yesterday was a pretty nice day. Coming down the stairs after writing my
morning journal entry, Marissa pointed out "when I said something
*crazy*, I meant like cleaning the basement or something." I laughed,
then shrugged my shoulders. "Well, I promised we'd do something fun. So
which would you rather do?" We went with something fun, of course.
Marissa caught a baby cold, and for some reason schlepping trash out of
our basement didn't feel like a good use of a Monday off work.

We spent the rest of the day lounging around the house, and I carved out
time to work on my first project card that involved code. I modified our
chores tracking tool to send morning reminders, summarizing all the
chores that were due that day. Believe it or not, on some days you're
too busy to even check a website, so I could appreciate the need for a
friendly proactive reminder. Marissa and I had also joked that our
chores tracker is kind of like a manager bearing down on us. "Boss is
really giving it to us today, huh?" I'd remark while checking the site
at night. Perhaps now that it sends us messages in the morning, we can
build on that lore.

We all took a long nap in the afternoon. I dosed off on the couch until
dark, then we got our things together to go to the Ale Asylum. And as
soon as I uttered the phrase *pinball machines* within earshot of
Rodney's room, he sprung out of bed. *This* was the crazy thing we had
settled on for our day-off.

At the Ale Asylum, after we ate dinner, Marissa handed Rodney five
single dollar bills, which he carefully folded and slipped into his
front jean pocket. It was so funny to me, because even though the
pinball machines were twenty feet from where we were sitting, he still
felt the need to secure the money as if he were going on a long
excursion. Rodney led me by the hand to the dark gaming corner, lined
wall to wall with blinking lights and reverberating with the exciting
sound of shaking metal and electronic melodies. Rodney stood before the
machines, carefully selecting one to spend the bills stowed away in his
pocket. A group of older guys occupied a Stranger Things pinball machine
to our right. A guy waiting with them looked at Rodney and smiled.
"Don't overthink it buddy, just go with the one that has the most
lights," he laughed. Rodney pulled up a chair to a Batman pinball
machine pushed all the way against the wall. He slipped a dollar into
the front, and off we went.

Marissa closed out our bill and joined us. We played pinball for another
half hour, and I even got some cash of my own. And something that really
confounded me - Rodney scored much higher than I did, even when I was on
my own machine trying my best. Pinball is fickle like that I guess.
Maybe I was overthinking it. Maybe pinball is one of those things better
approached from the perspective of a child - just follow the lights.

I think that's a good note to end on. I hope you all have an amazing
week. As for me, we are approaching the greatly anticipated Water Slides
with Cousins weekend, so I'm sure there will be no shortage of
excitement and motivation to get through this short, packed week. What
are you looking forward to this weekend?

Thanks for reading, and happy Tuesday.

