---
title: boy shows, civil war flour, and grocery store etiquette
image: posts/2020-03-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you are having a good Thursday thus
far.  It's a beautiful day outside.  The smell of spring is always
exhilarating.  I know it's been raining a lot this week, but at least
for a change we're getting some weather that's appropriate for the
current season.

I'm grateful for this Thursday.  Before turning in for the night,
Marissa and I made plans to order food.  And the nice thing about the
'Safer At Home' order is that ordering food makes you feel like a
hero.  I'm just trying to support my local restaurants, I assure you
it has _nothing_ to do with the fantastic nap I'll be able to take
this afternoon.  In case you couldn't tell, Thursdays are the Recker
family's lazy days.

Lazy for good reason, too.  I had a busy day yesterday, pretty much
writing code in my room all day like a mad man.  Every hour or so, I'd
get up to stretch my legs, refill on coffee, or just say 'hi' to
Rodney.  I got him into _X-men: Evolution_ this week, which is a
pretty decent cartoon rendition that I used to watch in high school.

"I'm still getting used to all the boy shows," said Marissa.  "When
they say stuff like _We're gonna take you DOWN_ and _you're not
getting away THAT easy_."  Marissa grew up in a house with all
sisters, and it's easy to imagine why the sounds of exploding tanks
and slashing swords don't yet blend seamlessly into the background for
her.  At least with another infant on the way, we'll get to take one
more tour through the golden years of sleepy background noise TV -
except for Blippi.  We don't like Blippi anymore, and we don't watch
Blippi either.

In the late afternoon, I finally got my code working.  After happily
posting the output in my team channel and setting up a code review for
the next day, I headed downstairs to join Marissa in the studio.  I
booted up the Xbox, and we got to chatting while I played Skate.

"You know this morning, in the first draft of my journal entry, I had
like three paragraphs about _Skate_," I said.  Marissa laughed.

"Yeah," I continued.  "I sort of felt like that Mike Wazowski meme
where he's sitting on a stool rambling about something nobody cares
about, except I was literally typing _the evidence is clear - the
first Skate game is superior to the other titles both technically and
creatively..._."

After getting Rodney out of bed, the two of us set up in the kitchen
to make pizza dough.  I was finally breaking into the new kind of
flour we had to buy when Hy-Vee ran out during the week of panic
buying.  "I'm nervous about this flour," I said to Marissa as she was
passing through the kitchen.  "I think it should work the same, but it
feels different in the bowl."  Being our first tour with natural,
unbleached flour, the difference is lost on me.  In fact, I've just
been referring to it as _civil war flour_.

After leaving the pizza dough in the oven to rise, I jumped in the car
and headed to Jenny street.  I needed to pick up some paper towels,
but I was also going to quickly grab some fresh mozzarella and basil.
Jenny street is almost completely back to normal.  People were
chatting with the butcher about weekend plans.  The younger kids
working at the register were complaining about online classes.  I
appreciate how everyone has done what they can to push the pandemic
collectively to the back of our minds.  The only time you would have
noticed something was different was while walking past someone.

"First you meet eyes with the person," I explained to Marissa.  "Then
you stop in your tracks, and after nodding, you walk around a six foot
wide circle together like you're about to sword fight."  I walked
slowly around Marissa, acting out the motion.  "And then you both keep
walking!  And that's polite grocery store etiquette now."

Back in the kitchen, after re-stocking our paper towels and cutting up
the dough into smaller dough balls, I earned myself another half hour
of free time before dinner.

"Dada.  Wann'watch X Man with me?" said Rodney tugging on my apron.
"Oh sure dude," I replied.  "That sounds awesome!"  I followed Rodney
into the living room and joined him on the couch.  Rodney started to
fiddle with things, first making me wear Marissa's headband.  He then
draped a Paw Patrol boat tow & anchor around the frame of my glasses,
and sheathed a ninja sword in the neckhole of my shirt.  Lastly, he
stuffed the tail of his toy dinosaur down the front of my sweater.
Marissa laughed, seeing me decorated in toys, still browsing Twitter
on my phone like nothing was different.

"Hey," I said to the family sitting on the couch in the living room.
"Do you guys wanna make your own pizza?"  After some convincing, we
gathered around the dining room table, moving the chairs out of the
way.  I set out the ingredients on the table, and together we patted
down our pizzas and assembled the ingredients.  "I'm curious to see
how these turn out with the _civil war flour_," I said.  I helped
Rodney get his pizza on the spatula and slide it onto the pizza stone.
After two waves of pizzas, we gathered around the table to eat.

"The new flour tastes better than I thought it would," said Marissa
chewing a mouthful of crust.

"Yeah the brown, greyish color makes you think it's going to taste
healthy.  If you close your eyes and don't think about the color, it's
not too bad."

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I gathered at the project
board.  "We're having a hard time getting stuff done this week, huh?"
I asked.  Most of our cards were still in the TODO column.  "Maybe
we're having the same prioritization problem we did that one week.  Or
maybe we just need to give ourselves an easy week every now and then."
Marissa nodded while flipping through the cards.

"Yeah," she replied.  "I don't feel like doing any of these right
now."

We headed outside to stand on the deck for a few minutes, enjoying the
cool evening air.  "You know I'm starting to like this lifestyle," I
said.  "The quarantine life is a drastic change - I feel like I just
suddenly went vegan or something.  But it's not so bad.  I'm starting
to appreciate all the extra space we're getting.  I feel like I'm a
lot more clear headed now."

Marissa nodded, but I could tell she wasn't feeling the same.  "I
really miss doing agility with the dogs."

"We'll figure out a way for them to get some energy out," I consoled
her.  "Maybe we can do something in the back yard.  Or maybe you can
rent the ring for an hour by yourself."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  If you want to celebrate
Thursday like we do, take it easy this evening.  Order something for
delivery, and maybe finally catch up on this _Tiger King_ show that
everyone keeps telling us about.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.
