---
title: worms, terrariums, and new hockey skates
banner: 2021-05-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Friday.  You'd have to be crazy to not
be in a good mood today.  The temperature is supposed to scrape the
low seventies, not to mention we're slated to have a beautiful
weekend.

_Sip_.  We have an exciting adventure planned today.  After work,
we're taking the entire family (dogs, kids, and all) up to Minnesota
for Auntie Megan's bridal shower.  We're staying in a hotel tonight.
We're not making any promises, but I'm told the hotel has a pool.

"I can wear a swimsuit again?  Great - I've been staying indoors for a
whole year and eating lots of birthday cake this week.  I'm going to
look very good in a swimsuit," I wrote to Marissa, accompanying my
slack message with a gif from the _X-Men_ movie - a pale, gelatinous
Senator Kelly emerging from the ocean as terrified beach-goers flee.

Marissa and I laughed about how under-prepared we are for the weekend
trip.  Last night when we probably should have been packing and making
plans, she was in the studio wrestling with a commission.

"Could you prop this up for me so I could get a good look at it?" she
asked.  I obliged her, lifting the table sized canvas up at a ninety
degree angle.  She stood back to observe, making the most hilarious
face in the process.

I showed her the picture.  "You should post more stuff like this on
your Instagram.  Your followers deserve to see the _real_ process."
Needless to say she did _not_ post this on her official account, and
she's probably not going to be thrilled to see it on the journal this
morning.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-07-studio.jpg">
    <img alt="studio" src="/images/2021-05-07-studio.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Marissa painted while I caught up on chores, and more importantly
prepared a habitat for my superworms, still homeward bound in the
mail.  All I did was wash out a plastic box with bleached water, dry
it out, and fill it with oats, but the chore carried ceremonial
significance and gave me time to get excited for insect care.  I don't
want to just sit around in a smelly box and wait to be eaten by a
spider.  If possible I'd like them to be happy and feel safe - safe
until they are inevitably eaten by a spider, of course.  It may be
just a sterile box filled with fresh oats, but I think it also looks
like a cozy home, don't you?

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-07-terrarium.jpg">
    <img alt="terrarium" src="/images/2021-05-07-terrarium.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Are those going to smell?" asked Marissa.

I shrugged.  "I don't know, I guess we'll find out soon."  Then I ran
up the stairs with the terrarium before having a chance to hear
Marissa's rebuttal.

The pet company _Chewy_ accidentally double fulfilled my order, so I
ended up with two extra terrariums.  Their customer support told me to
just give them away, so I turned two one of the little marketplace
channels on our work's chat.  The first reply was a very apt reference
to the YouTube classic [Neature Walk].  The second reply from Holly -
"tentative dibbs", she wrote.  She explained that she would take the
extra terrariums off my hands, as long as she didn't deprive anyone's
kid from having a free tank to keep fireflies in this summer.  That's
a very sweet sentiment, and shout-out to Holly for taking the extras.

[Neature Walk]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hm3JodBR-vs

Yesterday was an errand day.  Our first stop was the hockey store on
the west side of town.  Wednesday's ice skating lesson still stung a
bit, but Rodney had mostly gotten over it and decided to stick with
it.  To reward him for his persistence, Marissa and I decided to treat
him to his own pair of hockey skates.  Besides, the rental skates he
wore didn't fit him very well, and getting fitted for new ones seemed
a lot easier than working with the rink on trying a different pair.

Walking through the doors felt like we were entering an a hockey
paradise.  Endless rows of gleaming, polished hockey sticks.  Shoulder
pads and helmets adorned the proudly walls like medieval armor.  The
smell of fresh hockey pads trickled into my nose, and all at once the
nostalgia of good memories came rushing back as I watched Rodney
wander the aisles in wonder.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-07-hockey-store.jpg">
    <img alt="hockey-store" src="/images/2021-05-07-hockey-store.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

One of the staff members sauntered over.  I told him that we were
looking for a pair of skates, and he escorted Rodney over to a big
machine on the back wall.  "Take your shoes off and step up onto the
platform, little man," he said.  The machine beeped and whirred, the
platform beneath Rodney glowed as he shifted curiously.

"You gotta hold still, dude," said the attendant.  "Let's try again."

"Rodney FREEZE," said Marissa.  Rodney smiled and froze in place.  A
silly game we play around the house that happened to be very practical
in that moment.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-07-skate-fitting.jpg">
    <img alt="skate-fitting" src="/images/2021-05-07-skate-fitting.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

The attendant disappeared into the back, returning with two boxes of
tiny skates.  His feet slipped into them easily.  The padding was soft
and supportive around the ankles.  "OK, buddy now try to stand up,"
said the attendant.

"Take some tiny marches, like you learned in class," I added.  Rodney
seemed hesistent to stand-up, but he quickly realized how much easier
these skates were to walk in than the rental pair from the first
class.  His ankles, no longer wobbly, stood securely in place.

"They feel... kind of pretty good," said Rodney happily.

The attendent tied on the second pair for Rodney.  Rodney began to
chat him up.  "Do you know the Blackhawks?" asked Rodney.

"Oh I know the Blackhawks," said the attendent.  "That's Patrick Kane
right behind you."  He pointed to the wall behind the bench where we
sat where there was a life sized poster of Patrick Kane celebrating a
goal.

"I love the Blackhawks," said Rodney.  "Know who my favorite player is
this time?"

"Let me guess - Patrick Kane?" said the attendant.

"_Kaner_," said Rodney, correcting him.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-07-skate-tying.jpg">
    <img alt="skate-tying" src="/images/2021-05-07-skate-tying.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>


Rodney, thinking he and the attendant now had a "dream-sharing" type
of friendship launched into the retelling of his favorite nightmare.
"And do you know where the ghost was?" continued Rodney.  "He was
playing the piano."

"Sounds pretty spooky, dude," said the attendant, a little confused.

I'm glad Rodney had such a good time at the hockey store.  While
tempering expectations, I have a feeling that the next ice skating
lesson is going to go a lot better for him.  Thanks for stopping by
today, have a wonderful Friday everyone.
