---
title: the haunce, the golden era of playtime, and dutch with famke
banner: 2021-03-24.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Congratulations on crossing the halfway
threshold of the work week.  Now let's get to work having a meandering
personal conversation via written text, shall we?

What a beautiful morning we have here.  This lovely cool rain has been
blowing through our area all week, and it has made me absolutely
addicted to leaving the windows open in our house.  It just feels so
good to finally feel some humidity and moisture in my lungs.  And it's
making the house just so perfectly cozy.  As I'm writing this in our
living room, check out how Ziggy got herself set up.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-24-ziggy.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 24 ziggy" src="/images/2021-03-24-ziggy.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

The big comfy chair in the living room is one of her regular napping
spots.  This morning, I glanced over at her while I was cleaning up
the kitchen.  Her head was on the arm rest.  She was asleep, but her
eye lids were open.  Her eyes rolled back into her head like a ghoul,
and just the tip of her tongue was hanging out of her mouth.

Ziggy is asleep here.  Ollie and Marissa are asleep upstairs.  The
only people awake right now are Rodney and I.  From behind his cracked
door, Rodney politely asked me if he could take a potty break.  He
prefers to ask, no matter how many times I remind Rodney that he can
leave his room to go potty without explicit permission.  He's kind of
like Red from _The Shawshank Redemption_.  _Forty years I've been
asking permission to piss. I can't squeeze a drop without say-so.
Terrible thing, to live in fear._  That movie quote would probably
resonate with Rodney on some level.

I give Rodney credit, though.  Our toilet has this little quirk where
if you don't lift the handle after it flushes, the water will keep
running.  So whenever Rodney peed, I'd have to run upstairs to fix the
handle anyway.  But one day I decided to take a stab at explaining it
to him.

"See this dude?" I showed him.  "After you flush, can you just move
the handle back up?  Otherwise the water keeps running."

Rodney nodded.  After that single demonstration, I never heard the
toilet run again after he used it.  Don't estimate what kids can adapt
to, right?

_Sip_.  How about you?  Do you need to know any hacks and workarounds
for using the toilet in your house?  And more importantly, how did
your Tuesday go?

I had a pretty busy work day.  Timer, work, coffee, repeat - pretty
much all day.  Every now and then I'd emerge from my room to walk
around and stretch my legs.  In the dining room, Marissa was working
at the table watching the boys play.  We both stopped to observe them
on the rug.  Rodney was building a tower, and Miles was clacking two
big LEGO bricks together.

"I love watching them play," said Marissa.  "This is like the _golden
era_ of playtime."

Overlooking them was Rodney's big green dinosaur _Hauncy_.  The
_Haunce_.  The _Hauncinator_.  The _Haunce-machine_.  Hauncy has
become our family's mascot.  He's the one member of our tribe who is
above reproach and immune to teasing.  Something about his thin little
smile, smooth head, and big bouncy green body that gives him such a
calming presence.  To add to his charm, Rodney's "Hauncy voice" sounds
kind of like a young Jimmy Stewart.

Yesterday Rodney made a pen for Hauncy.  Those little white k'nex
pieces are his _cookies_.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-24-haunce.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 24 haunce" src="/images/2021-03-24-haunce.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Look at this absolute legend.  The Huance.  Just chilling in his pen,
eating cookies.  That green dinosaur is one magnificent bastard.

The work day rolled right into cooking dinner, which rolled right into
a hockey game.  The Hawks played the Panthers.  We got an early lead
and barely clung onto it until the final seconds of the game.  Forget
that the Panthers were missing their best player - Hawks win.

The game ended with twenty minutes to spare before my first real Dutch
conversation.  One of Marissa's Instagram friends is a native Dutch
speaker, and when she heard that I was trying to learn she kindly
offered to do a zoom chat with me.  I didn't want to come on too
strong, so I just greeted her in English.  "HaAAlo, Famke," I waved.
My _halo_ was an uncertain tone stuck between Dutch and English.

"So would you like to switch to Dutch now?" she asked.

"Oh I'm not ready yet," I laughed.  "Let's do some warm-up first just
so I can get comfortable."

Famke agreed.  We spent a few minutes just repeating phrases back and
forth.  I focused on the phrases that have been giving me trouble in
Duolingo.  It turns out that I have been saying my numbers just fine.
On Famke's authority, my _eenentwintig, tweentwintig, drientwintig_
was perfectly recognizable.

"I think you could handle a simple conversation - let's try it," she goaded.

I braced in my chair like I was on an airplane about to take off.  In
Dutch, Famke asked how long I had been learning, what I did for work,
and what the weather was like around us.  I nodded along to the words
I understood, and keying off the _deer in headlights_ look on my face,
Famke Englishified the words that I missed.  At some points in the
conversation, she anguished to find words that were on my level.

Thanks to Famke, I learned a lot about the way I've been learning
Dutch.  If you were to show me a Dutch word on a flash card, I could
define it, pronounce it, and give some other conjugations of it.  But
in a conversation, all that went out the window, and I felt as if I
only had access to about a dozen words.  It was challenging learning
new words without seeing them spelled out on a phone screen.  I felt
like a child, repeating the phrases back to Famke just like they
sounded to me.  There were a few moments where I repeated a phrase
thinking it was a totally novel word in my vocabulary, but after Famke
spelled it out I realized it was just two little words I knew said
together fluidly.

"So is it finding the words, or putting them together?" she asked.

"I don't know," I laughed.  "I know words, but none of them are
helpful.  I feel like I just have _airplane_, _woman_, _jail_, and
_couch_ flying around in my head."

My favorite moment in the conversation was when I got a nod of
approval for the way I dropped _verschilliende_, which means
"various".  "I like saying _verschilliende_," I chuckled.  "It makes
me feel very Dutch."

It was a wonderful time.  I had my doubts about my readiness to try a
real conversation with a native speaker, but I think "ready" and "not
ready" is a poor way to frame the exercise.  It's all just learning,
and no matter where you are at it's always nourishing and enlightening
to try.

"Als je Nederlands... spreken... jij moet graag... " I stuttered.  "Uh, hoe
zeg je _confused_?"

Famke shrugged.  "What are you trying to say?"

"I was trying to say - _If you are going to speak Dutch, you have to
enjoy being confused_," I laughed.

Check out [famkeatwork] on Instagram.  Her stuff is awesome.  Thanks
for stopping by today, have a great Wednesday everyone.

[famkeatwork]: https://www.instagram.com/famkeatwork/
