---
title: anti-journal 7
banner: 2021-04-25.jpg
---

## `2019-04-14 Sunday`

Hey Journal,

Today while cleaning up my sister's old laptop I discovered the ruins
of an ambition project I started to write one thousand words a day.
The funny thing is I remember telling everyone that I wanted to do
this, but I didn't remember I only made it five days.  Well today I
set out on the same venture.  Accept hopefully I'm older, wiser, and
just a little more patient.  Plus I have a better system now.  I have
to admit, the writing got a little whiney, which is perhaps why I
tweaked the rules to just let me write as much as I want.  Short and
sweet.

Tonight I tried making gnocchi.  Damn Gordon Ramsey makes everything
look so easy, I think it might be witchcraft.  Eh, I'm going to rally,
I'm bound for a gnocchi redemption this week.  I'll let you know how
it goes.

## `2019-06-19 Wednesday college, computers, and tv`

Good Morning Journal!

Well the strangeness of yesterday wore off pretty quickly, and the
routine took over.  It felt so good to work, drink coffee, come home,
and cook - even if the meal didn't go so well.  I tried making chicken
parm last night.  I wasn't exactly prepared to be challenged by such a
simple Italian American dish, but alas, it just about kicked my ass.
I burned one of the cutlets, the marinara was too watery, and the
cheese seemed to curdle instead of melt.  It was edible, but I wasn't
going to save any leftovers.  For being comfort food, it's sure a
complicated meal.

After dinner, I put Rod to bed and Marissa and I got to our chores,
then we indulged in a new show that we fell head over heels for.  It's
called "Sex Education" - it's about this 16 year old boy who, drawing
from his mom's experience as a sex therapist, starts his own sex
advice business at high school.  It's very raunchy, so we haven't
actually recommended the show to anyone else, but we've been blown
away at the subtlety and character development.  Man, I love the
feeling you get when a new show sweeps you away.

Today should be pretty low key.  I'm home alone with Rod pretty much
all day while working.  I'm on ticket duty, which is easy to keep up
with while I get caught up on the week I missed.  We're making
stamppot tonight, and I'm pretty sure I'm going to bed early.  Ugh, we
should not have watched that second episode of Sex Education, but it
was a real tear-jerker and we were hoping the next episode would be
much happier, and it was, but it ended around 1AM.  I'll be clinging
to this pot of coffee all morning until I feel ready to attack the
day.

Right now I'm working on Kelly's computer.  Yesterday, I came up with
like five interesting tech projects to take on, and I was ready to
fire them up.  But then I shamefully remembered that fixing my
sister's laptop has been on my to-do list for... I'm afraid to find
the exact number, but it feels like at least two months.  Yesterday
after some blood, sweat, and cussing, I managed to get El Capitan
installed on the machine, and it's humming along quite nicely!  It's
not exactly a powerhouse, but it's far from being a metal paperweight.
This work was pretty nostalgic.  In college I used to stay up into the
wee hours of the night dicking around with restoring old laptops.
Really I'd just open them up, clean them, do little things like reset
the PRAM and blow the dust out, then just get them on the latest
software possible.  And that's usually all it took to prevent someone
from throwing a computer in the garbage.

Well it's almost time I kick Marissa.  She needs to get to dog class,
and I think she may have forgot that the car needs gas, so I better
have a cup of coffee in hand for her.

Let's have a great Tuesday!  And for the love of God, let's go to bed
earlier than 1:30 AM this time.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-25-computer.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 25 computer" src="/images/2021-04-25-computer.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

## `2019-06-22 Saturday ribs and french toast`

Good Morning Journal!

I have a feeling it's going to be a wonderful day today.  It's a
beautiful Saturday morning, and even though I'm up a little earlier
than usual, I still got some great sleep.  Marissa and I finished Sex
Education yesterday, and we were reeling at how good it was, so maybe
just having a good TV show to watch has put me in a good mood this
morning.

Here's the plan today: I'm going to write my journal entry, clean the
dog puke behind me, then make Marissa and Rodney up with French toast.
Afterwards, I get to jump right to smoking a slab of ribs.  Something
about this batch of ribs already feels so right.  I put the rub on
yesterday, and instead of just throwing things into it and absolutely
drowning it in spices, I used a lot more moderation and common sense.
Before I took out a spice to be used in the rub, I just tried to
imagine if it would taste good with pork, and I didn't start combining
spices until I had selected all of them.  At any rate, today I'm going
with paprika, smoked paprika, cumin, garlic, cinnamon, pepper, brown
sugar, and white sugar.  I also prepped a batch of cornbread last
night, I'm trying that recipe again, only with added pieces of sweet
corn I tried with a paper towel.

So that's what I got going on today, just a lot of cooking and hanging
out outside.  I wish I had an extra cigar, it would be a really nice
day to sit outside and have a stogie.

Patience update: haven't put much more thought into it yet,
unfortunately.  I guess I'm still just kind of celebrating my
progress.  Maybe I'll pick it up again this Monday.  Something tells
me what I need right now is to deeply fall into this weekend and maybe
do something productive around the house.

Well, I had better clean up that dog puke, it looks like that's going
to take some elbow grease.

Let's have a wonderful, relaxing, productive Saturday today!  Oh, and
happy summer solstice.
