---
title: 'from the homework vault: cubicle life'
banner: 2021-02-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Mike Judge's film _Office Space_ has always had a special place in my
heart, but in high school it was my personal _Citizen Kane_.  Even
though the film meant to show how cruel and inhuman the cubicle life
was to the modern white collar worker, I was fascinated by that world.
I secretly wanted to commiserate over office politics, software bugs,
and idiot bosses just like Peter Gibbons.  I'd go on to find a real
knack and passion for working with computers, but there's no denying
that _Office Space_ first piqued my interest.

By the time I entered the work force, office cubicles were already
going out of style.  Following the latest trend, most places adopted
open floor plans, forcing us to sit in smaller desks pushed together
or arranged in a big circle.  They told us it was to "facilitate
collaboration", but we knew that was bullshit.  Companies liked open
floor plans because they could fit more developers in the same room,
they didn't have to pay for cubicle walls, and it was easier to keep
an eye on what we were doing.

For two different companies I worked for, I briefly enjoyed my own
real cubicle.  My phelt walls were a soft, non-threatening grey.  I
had my own coat rack, landline phone, and locking metal cabinet.  On
very special days, someone would absent-mindedly wheel our big scrum
whiteboard in front of my door way, sealing me in.  My friends, you
haven't experienced peace like quietly eating instant ramen in a
walled off cubicle.  That was the closest I've ever come to having my
own office.

For this 11th grade British Literature assignment, we had to write a
short story around a moral, a proverb, or a well known wise saying.
Truth be told, it didn't matter what the assignment was - I had
already made up my mind on writing my own miniature rendition of
_Office Space_.  I wrote up the story, then picked the most open ended
quote from my collection of pithy AIM away messages.

My teacher liked my essay and chose mine to read aloud in class.  The
proverb I had randomly chosen from my computer struck a chord with
him.

"_No matter how long the night, the sun will rise_," he read. "In
other words, your sin will always find you out.  Beautiful."

I was genuinely surprised that my teacher's interpretation worked so
well with the story.  In a way, he completed the assignment for me.

This is dated January 11, 2008.

---

> No matter how long the night, the sun will rise.
>
> -- African Proverb

“Woo!  Let’s get right down to business, shall we?  What is your
name?”

“Cline Gallagher. I don’t remember what my title is.”  The company
wellness survey took place twice a week.  Every Tuesday and Thursday
the human resources rep Andy would gallop into his cubicle (yes,
actually gallop), brandish a stupid grin, and sit with his legs
crossed on the floor.  Without a doubt, Cline would love nothing more
than to creatively end Andy’s life – perhaps strangle him with his
polka dot clip on tie or maybe even offer him a diet Pepsi spiked with
printer ink.

“Says here that you are a sales associate, buddy, as well as a…
certified office downer!”  Andy cackled and resounded with obscene
laughter.  His oily red facial hair bristled as saliva thickened at
the sides of his mouth; he rocked in a ball clapping his elephantine
hands.  Cline buried his head and mentally screamed.

“Sales?  I don’t even know what I sell.”  Cline’s retort was acidic,
but Andy was still as vibrant as a bag of skittles.  Cline winced,
knowing that what was to come was either a robotic recitation of the
SmileyCon mission statement (accompanied by the robot dance, of
course) or an obnoxious faux German accent.

“VELL SMAHRTY PAHNTZ!  VHAT ISS IT DAT YOU DO AHL DAY!”  Needless to
say, today it was the German accent.  At this point in the aimless
questioning, Cline would usually make up something that sounded
productive and unsuspicious, yet inexplicably vague.  However, Cline
was feeling especially honest today.

“I don’t do anything.  I mean, other than checking my email, playing
Minesweeper, pretending to drink coffee, and staring at my shoes, I
don’t do anything that comes close to a ‘sales associate’ in this
prison.  In fact, I don’t know what I’m doing in this company, not to
mention what I’m doing with my life!  Ah!  That’s what it is!  A
prison!  This place is a prison, and I am serving a life sentence
here!”  Andy rolled to his feet.  He crimped his chapped lips as if he
were crying.  Andy was mocking Cline with sputtering tears and comical
moans.  Cline grew angry.

“VELL CAH-LINE, I HAVE SOMME GOOOD NEWS FAHR YOU…”

Pop!  Andy fell to the ground like a wounded grizzly bear.  Cline
stood over him, rubbing his swollen fist.  Andy groaned and tipped his
head upward; his jaw dropped, revealing three bloody sockets that once
held wide yellow teeth.  Cline heard a nasal wheezing behind his neck.
It was Gloria.  Her massive forehead was perched just over the wall of
his cubicle (which she did regularly).  Her beady eyes spun in frantic
observation.

“Cline, you punched Andy.”  Only her eyes and forehead were seen, but
she raised her eyebrows as if she was expecting an apology.

“Cline, you punched Andy.”  Cline stared at her in disgust.  Her beady
eyes were fixed on him.

“Cline…”

“I know!  I punched Andy,” Cline screamed.  His face was now red and
the tips of his ears burned.

“… you punched Andy.”  She blinked about thirty times as she wiggled
her eyebrows.  Cline seized a bottle of keyboard cleaner and lunged at
her, pumping the aerosol cap.  She closed her eyes tightly as she
lethargically fell to the ground, moaning through her nose.

“Ah!  I can’t see.  The ammonium burns…”  Andy joined with a wail.

“I fink I swallowed a toof,” whimpered Andy as he writhed at Cline’s
feet.  Cline stormed out in a huff.  His eyes were fixed on a
decorative SmileyCon baseball bat displayed on the wall at the end of
the hallway.  Everyone on his floor milled around completely oblivious
to him.  Cline wrapped his sweaty fingers around the polished wood and
hurled himself backwards.  Cline wielded the bat above his head and
screamed hoarsely.  Everyone stopped and stared.  Cline felt their
stares like a solar cooker.  He trembled, struggling to hold the bat
above his head.  Gloria crawled out of her cubicle.

“Cline punched Andy.”  Her words were choked by the uncomfortable
silence.  Cline felt his pulse in his eyes.  His eardrums rumbled.
Tightening his grip on the colorful bat, he raised both his arms.

Cline swung at the window.  It shattered with a vile frequency.  Cline
swung again at a copier mounted on the wall.  Sparks flung into the
air in a static whip.  Cline was lost – drowning in a raging sea of
fury.  His mind ached within a delirium of numbing anger.  He could
not even hear the screams and shouts of employees as they fled.  Cline
beat everything.  Shards of glass, chunks of drywall, and wooden
splinters filled the air.  His rampage was brutishly turbulent.
Computers fizzled and flared in every cubicle.  The bat snapped
violently.  Cline fell to the ground bearing the broken handle.  He
stared at the ceiling, straining to catch his breath.

A single piece of paper floated under the bright lights and fell.  It
draped across his face and slid onto the carpeting.  Cline shifted to
read.  It was an official SmileyCon memo.  His name caught his eye.
It was printed in fine black in the text.  He read on:

Attention all SmileyCon employees:

Please offer your congratulations when possible to Cline Gallagher as
he has been recommended for a corporate position at our building
downtown.  Well done Cline.  We’ll miss you.

Andy Jellian, Director of Human Resources

Cline rolled backwards and sighed.

“Now I’m actually going to prison.”
