---
title: groceries, tarantulas, and minnie's cheeseburger
banner: 2021-04-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, weekend warriors.  Happy Monday.  This morning calls for
a modest, quiet celebration as my on-call shift ends in only a few
hours from now.  As of 11 AM today, if a server somewhere in our
infrastructure bursts into flames it is officially not my problem.  At
least not my _immediate_ problem.

Cloudy with light winds.  Temperatures hovering around forty degrees.
It's the perfect day to crack a window in our bedroom and hide out all
day with a pitcher of coffee.

_Sip_.  I already miss the weekend.  We had a great time over the past
few days seeing some friends, eating good food, and running some
errands.  Yesterday morning after we finished church, I took
Spider-man with me to Hy-Vee.  I don't think it's possible to oversell
how excited the bored shoppers are to see Rodney running around in his
Spider-man suit, especially the old people.  Rodney is practically a
celebrity.  People love calling out _HEY SPIDER-MAN!_ as he passes.
One lady even made a point to cross the entire produce section just to
inform me that she had been "zapped" with a web, and that it was a
great honor to be singled out.

Rodney also brings his rubber tarantula with him on these little
errands.  That part of his ensemble isn't really canon, but he just
happens to be really into spider-man _and_ real spiders at this time
in his life.  It's a whole spider theme right now.

Rodney and I brought back an exciting bounty.  Fruit snacks.  Plump
strawberries.  Fresh Herbs.  Crisp cabbage.  Perfectly symmetrical
purple shaded cloves of garlic.  For how often I rag on Hy-Vee for
missing the mark, I wouldn't dare miss the chance to commend them for
being in top form yesterday.  Everyone was in a good mood.  The store
was clean and well-stocked.  All their produce was
uncharacteristically beautiful.  Hy-Vee got an A+ yesterday.

We put the groceries away, and I got right to making lunch.  Since
I've kind of fallen off the wagon recently with making homemade bread,
I picked up a loaf of roasted garlic sourdough from the Hy-Vee
bakery.  For myself, I loaded up a sandwich with corned beef, sharp
cheddar, dijon mustard, mayo, and a cabbage and shallot salad tossed
in dressing.  Marissa got a more regular special: turkey and swiss.
Have you ever eaten a sandwich that made you tear up a little?

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-19-sandwiches.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 19 sandwiches" src="/images/2021-04-19-sandwiches.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Shifting gears to make Rodney's typical peanut butter and jelly, I saw
the terrible oversight I made.  He would have to enjoy his favorite
sandwich on roasted garlic flavored sourdough.  Peanut butter, jelly,
and roasted garlic.  Would those flavors make for a clashing,
offensive combination?  Thankfully, the culinary blunder went
undetected.

Our second trip yesterday was the pet store.  We put Ollie and Ziggy
away in their crates and took Minnie to Pet World to pick out her own
special toy.  Flanked by her family (as always, one of her brothers
dressed like Spider-man from the neck down), we strode through the
automatic sliding doors into Pet World.  Minnie put on a brave face,
but her body began to tremble.

"She's kind of shy," Marissa remarked with amusement.  "We've never
had a shy dog before.  This is new."

We took baby steps around the store.  Marissa let Minnie sniff places
of interest, but for the most part she just carried her underneath her
arm.  Rodney led the way into the back hallway where the reptiles were
kept.  We correctly guessed that he wanted to see one of the
tarantulas up close, as did I.  Marissa wandered away to find an
employee to unlock the case for us.

"Excuse me," she asked with Minnie still cradled on her arm.  "Would
you mind showing us the spiders?"

"I'm arachnaphobic," said the employee nervously.

"That's OK," Marissa replied sweetly.  "We'll just go ask the front."

We asked the front desk if somebody could take out the spiders.  "Our
regular spider guy isn't working today," said the girl hesitantly.
"I'm afraid of spiders too."  Several other employees approached the
desk to help.  They were all afraid of spiders too.

Finally, one of the employees mustered up the courage to open the
case.  The small tarantulas were kept in sealed plastic deli cups.
Rodney and I studied the cups while Marissa watched from a cautious
distance.

"I'm almost more scared of the smaller ones," said Marissa.

"I agree," I said.  "The big ones are a bit intimidating, but at least
you can keep an eye on them."  I turned to the employee who had helped
us.  "The _curly hair_ one, how big does that one get?"

"I have no idea," replied the girl holding the key to the lockbox.
She also looked a little nervous.

"Right," I sighed.  "Your spider guy isn't working."

The encounter planted a seed with me and Rodney.  We found ourselves
watching a tarantula home car video later that evening.  We learned
that the curly hair tarantulas are known for being calm and docile.
Their big black fangs are exclusive for eating prey, but in a worst
case scenario their venom is on par with a bee sting.  When they feel
threatened, they just flick these irritating hairs off their back
legs.  They only need a little water bowl and a hand-fed worm or
cricket once a week.

We circled the store and finally made it to the dog toys.  Marissa
deployed Minnie to the cold tile floor.  We all did are part squeezing
and shaking the toys on the rack, looking for a viable candidate.  But
Minnie didn't seem interested in anything.  She remained huddled near
Marissa's shoes.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-19-toys.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 19 toys" src="/images/2021-04-19-toys.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"How about this cheeseburger," said Marissa, plucking a small squeaky
toy off the wall and rolling it to the floor.  Minnie pounced and
grabbed it in her tiny mouth.  She squeaked it in her jaws, then
dropped it to the floor and retreated into Marissa's shoes as if she
was embarrassed by her own outburst of enthusiasm.  We all cracked a
smile.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-19-cheeseburger.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 19 cheeseburger" src="/images/2021-04-19-cheeseburger.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"It's... three dollars," chuckled Marissa reading the price tag.  For
as sweet as Minnie is, she's also a very cheap date.

Exhausted from her big day at the pet store, Minnie would spend the
rest of the evening in and out of deep puppy naps.  Of course, she
curled up with her special tiny cheese burger.  Each time Marissa and
I crept by we quietly sang the relevant Veggie Tales classic:

_You are his cheeseburger, his yummy cheeseburger.  He'll wait for
you-ooo, yeah, he'll wait for you-ooo, oh..._

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-19-burgernap.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 19 burgernap" src="/images/2021-04-19-burgernap.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Have a great Monday, everyone.

## Chump of the Week

Before I go, I'd like to circle back to _Pet World_.  It's one thing
to be afraid of spiders - to have a real arachnaphobic condition that
you can't control.  But a pet store where _everyone_ is afraid of
spiders?  Ridiculous.  Pet World, maybe you should have more than just
one spider guy on hand.  Not to mention, it's not like we wanted to
take a spider out on the floor and roll around with it.  My spider
obsessed son just wanted to see one of the little sealed deli cups up
close.  Pet World, hire some more spider people you chumps!
