---
title: slow weeks, a touch of food poisoning, and liquified dinners
banner: 2021-01-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

How's it going, everybody?  Happy Wednesday.  From my computer to
yours, I hope you are feeling good today and that you have enough
energy in the tank to get you to the weekend.

I can't believe it's only Wednesday.  Is it just me, or is this week
dragging on more slowly than usual?  I guess that's the downside of
having so few meetings and so much time to crank through my individual
work.  Part of me suspects that I've already finished what I normally
do in a week.  Maybe those little dopamine glands in my brain are so
accustomed to firing off the "good chemicals" after this much work
that they've deceived me into thinking that the weekend is just around
the corner.

We keep plugging away, I guess.  There's always something to do.  Even
if I catch up on my emails and get a work ticket to where I'd like it,
there's always dishes in the sink, old food in the fridge, or maybe
even a little bit of potty at the bottom of Rodney's plastic toilet
waiting to be rinsed out.  Tucked in the corner of our dining room, I
forget about that sometimes.  Not to be gross, but sometimes Rodney
fills it to the brim, and the only way he can force the issue is to
saunter over to me while I'm busy with something else and say in
passing, "My potty is getting _kinda pretty_ full."

_Sip_.  It's been a slow week, but a productive one.  I made good
progress on my vault upgrade yesterday, spending most of the day
composing a detailed runbook.  At this point in my career I've gotten
pretty good at writing instructions for doing something on servers
that's both automated, but not so "magical" that it poses a risk.  For
this stuff, you might think it would be a good idea to write one long
script that finishes every part of the task, but what if it breaks
half way through?  How do you know _where_ it broke and how much of
the task it had already finished?  How do you know if it left a mess?
How do you start it again?

The happy middle ground I've found is writing small functions that can
pasted in the terminal while reading.  The functions do helpful things
like fetching dynamic names and making simple changes to our resources
in Amazon, but they don't do too much.  If something breaks, then at
least it's much easier to fix it before moving on.

All in all, the project is moving along smoothly.  Within the next few
days I'm going to do a "dress rehearsal" in our staging environment.
Then hopefully onto the real thing.

I took a nice long lunch to make a batch of chicken stock, and since I
already had all the chicken carved up, I seared the breasts and served
them up with some cabbage and leftover rice for lunch.  It tasted
great going down, but inexplicably we all started to feel queasy - a
subtle, persistent stomach cramp.  A touch of food poisoning.  Rodney
got it the worst.  In fact, during his quiet time he actually climbed
into bed voluntarily and fell asleep, and I don't know when was the
last time that happened.

How did we get sick from fresh chicken breast, leftover rice, and
cabbage?  The chicken smelled fresh as a daisy, and it was on the
well-done side.  The cabbage had at least a half hour to soak in oil
and vinegar.  And leftover rice is rice.

"Maybe it's _Bacillus cereus_," I said reading off the computer
screen.  "It says that it can develop on cooked rice if it is left out
for at least two hours."

"We leave rice out all the time," laughed Marissa.  "Wouldn't we get
that constantly?"

Just a guess.  Stomachs are weird, and sometimes they don't like the
things you eat.  We all felt fine later that evening.  Rodney insisted
he was still sick, and that his _tummicks was making his eyes hurt_,
but that was clearly just a misdiagnosis of a classic "too much Paw
Patrol" headache.

I made pea soup for dinner.  Somehow I messed up the consistency, and
when it was time to strain it serve it up, it was practically green
water.  I blasted it for a few minutes on the stove and cut some bread
to hold everyone over.

Finally, over an hour later, it was time to eat.  The green soup was
still on the thinner side.  Marissa and I got along just fine, but
Rodney struggled to lap the thin soup at the end of his spoon.
Without warning, I grabbed his bowl and poured it into his plastic
spider-man sippie cup, sealing it with a lid and straw.

"HUH?" laughed Rodney.  "My spider-man cup?"

"Yeah, dude," I laughed.  "Just drink it.  See if you like it."

Rodney placed the cup in his lap and carefully sipped his dinner
drink.  He smiled, then went right back to the straw.  He proceeded to
slam it like he was drinking a Big Gulp.  Seconds later, his straw was
loudly slurping air.

"I bee excused?" said Rodney after taking a gasp of air.  Marissa and
I stared at each other, baffled.  Rodney skipped away into the living
room.

"What just happened?" laughed Marissa.  "He finished that in like
sixty seconds."

"He's hungry, but I think it's just the utensils that trip him up," I
laughed.

"YES," said Marissa.  "I think it's just - you know - keeping his
focus while using forks and spoons."

"We should just liquefy all his dinners," I laughed.  "Blended mac and
cheese.  Blended pork chops.  Blended peanut butter and jelly."

Putting Rodney to bed, he seemed a little sad that his tummy still
didn't feel right.

"It's ok, dude.  The _grinch soup_ will help, that's good for your
tummy."

"No - It didn't work," said Rodney.  "My _tummicks_ still hurts."

"Well, tummies are tricky," I said.  "Give it time.  It doesn't work
instantly.  Dude, I promise you'll feel perfectly fine in the morning,
just get some sleep."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Take care of your _tummicks_, and have
a great Wednesday.
