---
title: plans, sandwich analogies, and skating practice
banner: 2021-05-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends of the _dot-com_.  Happy Thursday.  I'm sending
you positive vibes on this chilly, overcast morning.  May your coffee
be hot and fresh.  May your calendar be mostly empty, especially
around lunch.  May your email inbox be scant and your software updates
speedy.

I've got a day off tomorrow, and that proved to be a good decision
because the whole work force gets a day off on Monday for Memorial
day.  That goes to show that sometimes when you request a day off to
help your wife with an art show, the universe shows its appreciation
by giving you a four day weekend.  Whether you have a three or a four
day weekend, I hope you're teeing up a relaxing break from work.
Break out the barbecue.  Eat chips.  Maybe drive to St. Charles and
buy some art from my wife.  All this week Marissa has been getting
ready for the big show.  Tomorrow, we're driving to Illinois, dropping
the dogs of at their respective baby sitters, dumping the human kids
off at my parents' place, and setting up Marissa's booth.  It should
be a good time, and it will help to have a Monday to recuperate as
well.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  I'm tired, but I got enough fumes
in the tank to get me through one more work day.  Yesterday was a fast
day, with work trickling my way from multiple places.  I paired with
the interns.  I debugged another team's secrets configuration.  To
borrow a phrase from my teammate Derek, I felt busier than a termite
in a sawmill.  I also gave my canned hour long training session to a
group of new engineers, so I was wearing my chipper "Welcome to
Zendesk" face throughout.

It was a quiet group.  They contently listened while I droned about
cloud providers, regions, and databases.  I was taking them through a
slide that provided an anatomical slice of the Zendesk customer pod,
and I decided to _ad lib_.

"If you think of the Zendesk pod like a sandwich, CloudFlare is the
bread.... and kubernetes is the cheese."

My voice trailed off, realizing that the analogy wasn't going
anywhere.  If our CDN were the bread, then we only have a slice of
bread on top of a pile of cheese, meat, and whatever other
ingredients, and that's not a sandwich at all.  I backed out of the
botched analogy with a quiet chuckle.  "You're engineers - you don't
need an analogy," I said.

There is this one slide in my deck that has always confused me.  We
show engineers a projection of a world map speckled with little blue
dots, representing all the endpoints from which we distribute static
assets.  One of the dots hovering near Finland is bigger and brighter
than the others.  I've often waxed about my own confusion for new
groups.  "I don't know why this one is bigger," I say.  "It can't be
the headquarters, because that's in San Francisco.  For some reason,
this map just chose to highlight Finland I guess.  Maybe that's the
_cool_ endpoint like with beer on tap and a ping pong table, who
knows."

Yesterday I learned from a colleague that the map was a screenshot
taken from CloudFlare's website.  On their website, the map is
animated.  The dots blink randomly.  Whoever took a screenshot for our
slide deck must have taken it while Finland happened to be lit up.  A
small bit of trivia, but I feel like a burden of explanation has been
lifted off my chest.

The work day preceded, and soon it was time for Rodney and I to begin
our ice skating practice ritual.  We changed into warm clothes.  We
jumped in the car.  We listened to track one of the _Enter the
Spider-Verse_ soundtrack on loop while our car rambled along side
streets to the big grey building.  We parked.  I reminded Rodney that
even though he brought several toys, only the small rubber spider
could secretly join.

As a side note, I always wonder what would happen if I actually
allowed Rodney to bring all his toys into the rink.  Imagine if he
feebly took the ice, carrying a baby giraffe, a stuffed corgi, a
dinosaur, a cup of slime, and a Highlights magazine cradled in his
arms.

While waiting to head in, I broached the subject of skating by
himself.  "What do you think about Daddy standing off to the side
again?" I asked.

"Um... no," said Rodney.  "I like Dada on the ice."  He bobbed his
head to track one of the _Enter the Spider-Verse_ soundtrack.

To both of our shock, practice began with the teacher pulling the
parents aside.  She asked us to leave the ice.  Rodney's eyes scanned
the building, but once he spotted me along the boards, a simple thumbs
up quelled his worries.

Watching from the side lines was a much different sort of practice.
It was more amusing.  The parents all chuckled while we watched our
kids tottle around the ice.

I'll say this - I don't think I have ever felt older in my life.  I've
been the kid on the ice before, but I've never been the parent
standing off to the side partaking in small talk.  What's your son's
name?  How old is he?  Is he going to try hockey?  Oh sure, I'm
worried about concussions to, but what can you do?  Shrug.  Nod.
Observe.  Repeat.

Meanwhile, the teacher used a thick marker to draw a long, wobbly line
on the ice.  She instructed the kids to follow it, like a race track.
They each spun in a slow circle when the reached the loop-de-loop, and
they dipped low when they got to the _X_.

It's truly remarkable watching how clever Rodney's teacher is when it
comes to teaching kids to skate.  They play games.  She keeps their
focus.  She switches things up moments before they get bored or
frustrated.  It's almost like they're being tricked into developing
the balance and discipline themselves while being completely
distracted from it.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-27-skating.jpg">
    <img alt="skating" src="/images/2021-05-27-skating.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Thursday, everyone.
