---
title: body wash, working on the weekend, and switchfoot
banner: 2021-01-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  The holiday weekend was
great, but it feels good to get things back on track too.  Sitting
here alone with my laptop in the early morning right on schedule,
everything just feels right.

_Sip_.  This morning in the shower I realized that my bottle of body
wash was empty.  I've passively been an _Old Spice_ man for, give or
take, the last ten years.  This past bottle that I've just worked
through was named something like _bear claw_ or _hawk finger_.  I used
to enjoy trying each of the flavors, but after a while they all start
to smell the same.  Underneath all the little variations it's just the
same blue goop that vaguely smells like an experimental candy.

I had to resort to using Marissa's body wash, and let me tell you I
feel amazing.  I feel like I just ran through a fresh rain forest.  I
feel aromatic and moisturized.  To quote the great Nick Miller from
_New Girl_, "I smell like a baby in a damn meadow."

In fact, I'm feeling so good about how I smell, I think I'll submit a
formal request to just consolidate on body wash.  We're already
running low on shower shelf space.  My bottle of old spice _boat
captain_ flavored body wash also happens to take up most of the shelf.
Because men are big - especially us old spice men.  You know us,
always doing cool stuff like chopping wood, eating ham, and smoking
pipe tobacco.  We don't take crap from anyone.  We just want to do
what we always do - slather our bodies in _FOXCREST_ flavored gel and
watch the game.

I wish I could stay on the computer all day and joke about male body
wash.  Looking ahead, I actually have kid of a busy day.  I have some
meetings sprinkled throughout.  I'm picking up groceries in the
morning.  I have a vault upgrade in production in the afternoon, and
plenty of other problems with the staging environment to sort out.  In
fact, some of the work found its way to me over the weekend.  An
engineer from our office in Australia meekly tagged me in a slack
message, knowing it was a holiday weekend in the US.  I broke out in a
cold sweat thinking of I could have possibly broken last Friday.

"You don't have to sign on, do you?" asked Marissa.

"Well, technically not unless they call an incident," I said.  "But I
don't think I'm going to be able to relax unless I see what's up.  Let
me throw an hour at it."

Thankfully, an hour was all it took to get things squared up.  Buried
in the giant changelog for the vault terraform provider was a little
blurb about how they removed trailing slashes from auth backends.
This explained pretty elegantly why all of the sudden we had a bunch
of permission errors - the paths got reapplied without those extra
slashes and the rest was history.  I don't encourage people to work on
the weekend, but if you're gonna do it, this was kind of a fun little
problem.  I'm glad we got it fixed.  It would have been hard to attack
the same problem this morning, especially since it's the middle of the
night in Australia.

Today will be busy.  I don't know if it's just me, but when my
schedule starts to fill up, my music playlist reverts to the stuff I
used to listen to when I was in high school.  Dreary weather and hard
work calls for something hopeful - something like Switchfoot.

The music you listened to in high school is supposed to be just a
little bit embarrassing after you grow up, and there are plenty of
examples in my own catalog.  The first track of my morning mixtape in
grade school was _Eye of the Tiger_, which I unironically looked to
for motivation .  I used to practice the rap verses from _Jesus Freak_
in my bathroom mirror and film myself dancing to _KJ52_ and _Gospel
Gangstaz_.

But one band that I never feel embarrassment for is _Switchfoot_.  The
older I get, the more I appreciate how good their music was.  Jon
Foreman may have been viewed by most as just a ruggedly handsome
California boy and occasional guest star on MTV and Nickelodeon's
_Slime Time Live_, but he was as much a poet and a philosopher.  His
thoughtful lyrics still have the same hold over me decades later.
These days when I listen to Switchfoot, I feel lucky to have somehow
found them in an ocean of terrible music.

The band has great history.  There are these great striations in their
tenured catalog that show their growth.  I found them at the height of
their popularity when they made _The Beautiful Letdown_ when it felt
like the iconic guitar riff from _Meant to Live_ was on the radio
every fifteen minutes.  But at the height of their popularity, that
record still felt so restless and regretful.  It felt like their giant
Sony/Columbia record company's push for main stream appeal was wearing
them down.  As _Meant to Live_'s popularity started to wane, they put
out the laziest music video rehash to promote Sony's new Spider-Man
movie.  It just featured Jon Foreman walking down an empty street
singing over cuts of Toby Maguire's Spider-Man swinging through the
city, and needless to say Jon looked like he was phoning it in.

The _Beautiful Letdown_ was a special album because even in spite of
big budget polished sound and the pop appeal, the powerful lyrics
still cut through.  It was hard to ignore the message of the songs
that contradicted where the big budget studios wanted to steer them.
_More than bent on getting by_.  _If we're adding to the noise, turn
off this song._  _This is your life, are you who you want to be?_  _We
were meant to live for so much more, have we lost ourselves?_

Thankfully Switchfoot bagged Columbia/Sony and started their own
record company.  They grew into their role as leaders in thoughtful
alt rock while staying true to their Christian roots.  They went on to
define their sound.

But lately I find myself coming back to their first album, _The Legend
of Chin_.  It's probably their least accessible album, but it's got
this existential dread and doubt that the other albums lack.  The
lyrics constantly give you conflicting feelings of dread and hope.

_Go, go where you are.  Anchor your roots underneath.  Doubt your
doubts, and believe your beliefs._

Thank God for Switchfoot.  Have a great day, everyone.
