---
title: ultimate red titan, rainbow pizza, and plastic cups
banner: 2021-05-24.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Monday.  If you're not feeling the
work week magic yet, don't worry - neither am I.  It can just be our
little secret.  Why don't we just keep drinking coffee until we're
ready to face the world, and if we're still not there an hour from now
we can always just have a "zoom camera off" kind of day.

_Sip_.  This weekend was so brief.  I miss it already.  I want to go
back to the long nap I took yesterday afternoon.  I stretched out
across the couch and queued up a twenty hour long YouTube video that
was just ocean sounds over a video loop of a beach.  I want to go back
to Saturday, when I had the whole morning to spend by myself with a
big cup of coffee and a fun gratifying side project.  I want to go
back to when I first met _URT_.

What's that?  Oh, you haven't gotten a chance to meet _URT_ yet?
That's understandable.  After all, Rodney invented him only yesterday.
Rodney came out of his quiet time beaming with pride, presenting me a
large boxy robot he built.  The robot was a variation of his favorite
themes - large frame, feeble little legs, a dedicated shooter hand for
dealing with bad guys, and a tiny insect-like mouth.  But this one had
a wicked pair of raid horns protruding out of his head too.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-urt-1.jpg">
    <img alt="urt-1" src="/images/2021-05-24-urt-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>


"What's this guy's name?" I asked, secretly hoping Rodney wouldn't say
_the devil_.

"THIS is _ULTIMATE_.  _RED_.  _TITAN_, " said Rodney.  He used the
robot's hand - the non-gun hand - to give me a wave.

I didn't catch most of the backstory to Ultimate Red Titan.  There
were too many Rodney fillers in his story.  But based on some clues we
learned that it was something out of the ever-expanding Ryan's World
toy universe.  Rodney's robot was based on a real robot from the
cartoon named _Ultimate Red Titan_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-urt-0.jpg">
    <img alt="urt-0" src="/images/2021-05-24-urt-0.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"It's nice to meet you, U.R.T.," I said.  Rodney shook his head.  "No,"
He replied.  "It's _ULTIMATE_.  _RED_.  _TITAN_."

Marissa, standing behind us, uttered the word _urt_ to herself.

Even though it peeved Rodney, I called the little robot _U.R.T._ the
rest of the day.  But we made it up to him by treating him like one of
our own.  Ultimate Red Titan got a seat at our lunch table.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-urt-2.jpg">
    <img alt="urt-2" src="/images/2021-05-24-urt-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I even got suckered into tucking URT into bed for the night.  A whole
hour after Rodney was in bed, I heard him whimper through his cracked
door.  "Dada, can you get Ultimate Red Titan for me?" He asked.

"No problem dude," I said.  The next moment, I was gingerly walking
URT up the stairs, tapping each step with one of his feeble little
legs.

"Where's he going to sleep?" asked Rodney.

"He... can sleep in the k'nex bin," I said.  I kicked the bin closer
to the bookshelf.  "He's made of k'nex, he'll probably like that."  I
surprised myself at how quickly I fulfilled the role of expert in
k'nex robot culture.

"Can you get a blanket?" asked Rodney.

"No, he doesn't need a blanket," I replied.

Rodney protested.  "But he's going to get cold."

After a long sigh, I crossed Rodney's dark room and retrieved his
extra blanket from the bottom drawer.  I unfurled the blanket, tucking
it around URT's boxy shoulders, his claw and his gun hand, and between
his feeble little legs.  "Don't forget piggies," reminded Rodney.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-urt-3.jpg">
    <img alt="urt-3" src="/images/2021-05-24-urt-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Thankfully there was a lot more to this weekend to adopting a k'nex
robot.  We had a rainbow pizza too.  In Rodney's new issue of
Highlights, there was a nice story about a family eating a different
color food every week, and it all culminated to a final rainbow
colored feast on Saturday.  The story had a suggested recipe for
making a rainbow colored pizza - cherry tomatoes, banana peppers,
kalamata olives, etc.

We tried our own version of a rainbow pizza.  And even though it may
have undermined the whole point of eating foods with colors, I just
used mostly bell peppers.  You can hit almost half the rainbow with
bell peppers alone.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-pizza-1.jpg">
    <img alt="pizza-1" src="/images/2021-05-24-pizza-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>It would have been even better if I remembered that
  orange peppers were a thing too.  But than there wouldn't be as much
  room for Marissa's red onions.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Just in case the rainbow pizza was a flop, we had a standby cheese
ready to go.  But the rainbow pizza wasn't a flop.  It was delicious.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-pizza-2.jpg">
    <img alt="pizza-2" src="/images/2021-05-24-pizza-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

After dinner we played a game of Jenga.  We bet jelly beans and
bedtime extensions on who would make the tower fall over.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-1.jpg">
    <img alt="jenga-1" src="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-2.jpg">
    <img alt="jenga-2" src="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-3.jpg">
    <img alt="jenga-3" src="/images/2021-05-24-jenga-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Yesterday was also a big day for the worms.  We selected the five
fattest ones we could find and moved them into plastic cups.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-worms-1.jpg">
    <img alt="worms-1" src="/images/2021-05-24-worms-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-24-worms-2.jpg">
    <img alt="worms-2" src="/images/2021-05-24-worms-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Mysteriously, the big worms are the hardest to find.  In fact, after
we had selected the five brave worms to be secluded into plastic cups
with no food or water until they pupate, the other worms immediately
emerged to the surface to mock them.

The fattest worm stood on top the fresh slice of carrot, flaunting his
luck.  None of the worms have names yet, but this particular fatso,
for his utter lack of class, has earned the name chump.  Chump of the
week.

Listen, chump.  You act all tough now for being able to hide from me
and Rodney, but that was kind of a dumb decision on your part.  The
five we picked are going to turn into beetles.  They'll be moved to a
luxury suite where they'll enjoy a cushy lifestyle of eating fresh
vegetables and breeding.  You think you're so clever now, but you've
just doubled your chances of turning into spider food.

Let this be a lesson.  When the snake-feeding tongs of opportunity
begin to rifle through your life, don't run from them.  They're just
trying to help.

Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  Have a great day.
