---
title: secret sauce, running, and poop music
banner: 2021-01-06.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Wednesday.  The halfway point of the
week can be kind of comforting you know?  If you're having a good week
and getting stuff done, the weekend feels within reach and it's easy
to summon the energy to get to Friday.  If you're having a bad week,
there's still two and a half days to turn it around.  If you're having
a _really_ bad week, Wednesday means it's almost over.

I'm having a good week.  No complaints over here.  I've got fresh
coffee, I'm caught up on chores, and my schedule is pretty wide open
today.  On top of everything, in the next few minutes the house will
be flooded with the aroma of fresh bread.

This January, I've got bread on my mind.  Sometime over the holiday
break, I got tired of my go-to bread recipe.  It could just be the dry
winter air, but the loaves aren't springing like they used to.
Additionally, my trusty parchment paper method over time has left me
feeling unsatisfied.  Parchment paper is effective, but folding it
into a rough three dimensional shape along the sides of the breadpan
is not a ritual I take pleasure in.  The parchment paper crinkles and
rips, and leaves weird folds on the loaf that kind of resembles fish
gills.

In hopes of getting a nice sharp crust again, I tried cutting the
parchment paper into strips - one wide long strip through the length
of the pan and a short one to cover the sides.  The crust was better,
but I had to break a sweat getting it out of the pan.

For this morning's loaf, I oiled the pan and gave it a nice dusting of
corn meal.  The blogs say that corn meal will ensure the loaf slips
out.  I guess we'll know if that's true (glances at clock) 38 minutes
from now.  I made it very clear to Marissa that this morning might be
a bread fail.

"I like bread fails," said Marissa.  "That just means we get to wale
on a fresh loaf of bread all day without feeling guilty."

You got to love that attitude.  With bread, thank God you can still
eat your mistakes.

_Sip_.  Tuesday was kind of a weird day.  My Tuesday was in a sense
the complete opposite of my Monday.  Monday was filled with little
tasks and focused meetings.  Tuesday was roped off for one giant all
company meeting that would last all day.

I watched the first session from my office upstairs.  I had my notes
open just in case I needed to take anything down, but very quickly it
became clear that this was more general attitude and goal setting
stuff.  I relocated to the kitchen so I could watch while making
chicken stock.  I cranked the volume on my laptop so Marissa could
listen in.  Being a self-employed artist and her own boss, I could
imagine that she's amused by the mannerisms of corporate executives.

"So one thing I've noticed about C-level people is that they re-use
each other's lingo," I said to Marissa.  "So far, I've counted three
uses of the phrase _secret sauce_.  Let's see how many more times that
phrase is used."

We got up to five _secret sauce_'s in total.  Not the most egregious
example I could think of, but it's a real phenomenon in corporate
America, and I even do it myself.  What can I say?  I've got skin in
the game, and when someone runs something up the flag pole, I salute
it.  That's how I establish my beach head.  Are we in alignment yet?
I guess we'll have to circle back, put a pin in it, and kick the tires
on it when we're par for the course.  That's my _secret sauce_.

In honor of the kick-off, my company let me expense my lunch.  I
treated the family to ramen from one of our favorite restaurants on
the square.  It was a treat.

After finishing out the work day, I went for another run.  The good
news is that I ran a respectable ten minute mile, but the bad news is
that I only finished six minutes of it.

The kitchen door snapped shut behind me.  My tired lungs heaved as I
kicked my running shoes to the side.

"How did it go?" said Marissa.

"I start off way too fast," I huffed.

"Yeah, do you just get excited?" she said.  I nodded.

Slow progress on the running front, but that's OK.  I'm re introducing
running back into my life just for the sake of running.  I'm barely
paying attention to how far and how long - the point is that it just
gets my heart pumping again.

And after this Friday, my gimp stitched up hand will be fully
restored.  Push-ups and pull-ups will be back on the menu.  I shudder
thinking of the penance I will soon pay for my weeks of reckless
eggnog binging, but getting in shape just makes it that much more fun
to binge on eggnog next Christmas.

After dinner, we headed upstairs for a Zoom session with my family.
Rodney took center stage in front of the webcam to give the family an
exciting poop update.  "I poop in the potty all by myself," he rang.
"It's not so scary."

The floor was opened for questions.  "Where does the poop go?" asked my mom.

"It goes to the _poop party_," replied Rodney.

"Is there music at the poop party?" asked Sarah.

"Yes," said Rodney confidently.

"It's _poop music_," we said nearly in unison.

We were sidetracked unpacking the meaning of _poop music_.  Does this
mean there are also poop instruments, poop musicians, and poop DJ's?
For some reason the first thing that came to my mind hearing the
phrase _poop music_ was _Yummy_ by Justin Bieber.  If poop parties are
real, I have a feeling they're listening to a lot of Justin Bieber.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Wednesday everyone.
