---
title: anti-journal 10
banner: 2021-05-16.jpg
---

## `2019-04-16 Tuesday`

Good morning, journal!

Another day, another cup of coffee.  It's a balmy, drizzly day in
Madison.  I'm drinking fresh coffee out of a silly corgi mug and
listening to Blonde quietly in my headphones while I write for the
sake of writing.

Yesterday was very busy, but I'm not gonna lie to you.  We killed it.
It's funny how Marissa and I happen to do _really_ overly active
neighborhood stuff on the same day.  I finally found out what she was
up to yesterday - she was teaching an art session at Karben 4 for kids
with autism.  Pretty cool stuff.

I was just meeting with the Kids Code leaders at Barrique's.  I had to
take Rodney.  I was worried about how we would do sitting in a chair
at a coffee shop for an hour, but he was a champ.  He sat quietly,
played with the toys I brought for him, and nibbled on a rice crispy
treat.  Didn't make a peep the entire time, except for a few quiet
dinosaur noises.  But that's fair, what kind of person can play with
dinosaur toys without making the _rawr_ noises.  I understand that -
I'm not a monster.

But it went well.  Rodney and I had just enough time to whip up some
quick stamppot for dinner, Marissa put him down for bed, I practiced
piano, then we drank and watched Youtube videos.  We discovered a
great new food channel yesterday called "Food Wishes".  Chef John is a
little more down to earth than the usual youtube cooking personalities
we follow.  I like his deal because he finds cheap, practical ways of
making difficult recipes.  Last night we were in awe watching how
quickly he was able to whip up a cheese souflee using only like two
bowls, some eggs, flour, sugar, vanilla extract.  I just love the kind
of recipe videos that are so simple, you don't have to write anything
down.

So what else is going on.  Work was OK.  I spent half the day at home
just watching a hostgroup update.  Tried to get some work reading
done.  Taking the time to read and understand a document someone else
wrote is nearly impossible.  Heath wrote up some document outlining
where he thinks our config service project should go and I literally
read it three times - still couldn't figure out what he was trying to
say.  Am I getting worse at reading?  Maybe I just don't read things
other people write very often and I'm bad at it.

Today should be much more normal.  Regular day of work, then taking
Rodney to Hy-Vee for a much needed grocery run.  Also going to pick up
supplies to make homemade spaghetti & meatballs in red sauce.  I'll
let you know how it goes.

Let's have a great day!

## `2019-04-29 Monday`

Good Morning Journal!

I had a wonderful weekend.  I got to spend a lot of one-on-one time
with Rodney, and I got to pretty much cook all weekend.  I'm still
riding the high of how well my pizza turned out.  Oh, and I finally
got around to listening to Beyonce's new album /Homecoming/, which was
pretty fantastic.  I need to listen to it a few more times before I
find a track for the 2019 mixtape.  One of those definitely deserves
to be on there.

Last night Marissa and I watched Game of Thrones.  I'm still kind of
reeling from the episode.  What are the rules with spoilers and
journal entries?  Well, just in case some distant descendant of mine
is reading this, I'll refrain from describing what happened.  It had
both of us just sitting their with our mouths open, I'll say that
much.

Last night I had a pretty weird dream.  Marissa and I were having
another baby, and when she gave birth it was like a little fart and
the baby was really small - like a mini baby, only an inch.  I proudly
declared "IT'S A GIRL" and then woke up as I was googling "how big are
babies supposed to be".  It's good knowing that no matter how surreal
the problem is, even in the dream world, I still have the sense to
google things.

This week should be pretty low key.  As of 9:00am this morning, I'm
finally off of ticket duty.  I think to celebrate I'm going to shut my
phone off and work somewhere secluded today.  I didn't actually get
paged last week, but I still had to carry my laptop with me everywhere
and keep my phone on full volume.  Plus I had to stay sober through
two weekends.  But that's all over and I won't have to do it for
another four weeks.

Damn, I missed my piano practice yesterday.  I think we all know that
wasn't going to happen.  I had fun with Rodney yesterday but I went
hard.  The second after I was done cleaning up dinner I just flopped
on the couch and that was that.  It's a warm, rainy day today.  I'm
looking forward to a quiet week.  I need some alone time.

Hey, let's have a nice week.  Let's catch up on thinking and get back
to the basics.

## `2019-05-12 Sunday`

Good Morning Journal!

Well I'm hanging in there.  This is a really weird cold/soar throat
because I forget about it every now and then, like when I get a really
nice hot cup of coffee or have something good to eat.  But then I just
crash in the evening.  Yesterday I think I fell asleep at 11.  But I'm
getting through it.  We still had a pretty good dinner.  I made
braised chuck roast, potatoes, and a Caprese salad.  I'm really happy
about how the potatoes turned out.  Knowing how to make a bed of
creamy yellow potatoes really flings open the doors to other trinkets
of culinary fanciness, doesn't it?

Today is going to be pretty low key.  I'm pretty sure the only thing I
have to do is email my mother, as it is Mother's day.  Marissa and Rod
are going to sleep in and once they wake up we're going to order in
Denny's and eat in on the couch.

Yesterday we all watched a nature documentary about insects.  It was
pretty interesting.  After Rodney went to bed we kept it rolling and
watched the episode about ocean invertebrates.  I don't know why, but
I was really struck by how intricate these creature's routines are,
all to the end of just surviving.  Did you know a mother octopus hides
under a rock for ll months without eating anything just to wait for
her eggs to hatch?  She even moves water over them to circulate air
and combs the egg sacs to keep algae from growing on them?  It was
also very cool watching how efficiently a bunch of star fish can pick
a carcass down to the bone, albeit a little macabre.

So like I said, we're taking it easy today.  A dead seal pup getting
picked apart by starfish on the TV is probably the most exciting thing
happening in our house this weekend.  But you never know.  Maybe I'll
take a killer nap in the afternoon and I'll suddenly want to walk to
the Biergarten with everyone.  That wouldn't be so bad.

Let's have a relaxing Sunday, shall we?
