---
title: 'from the homework vault: the count of monte cristo'
banner: 2021-01-24.jpg
---

My 11th grade Literature class had to read the Count of Monte Cristo.
It's still in my top ten favorite books - the abridged edition - the
unabridged edition was just too long for me to get through.

These are from Junior year literature, the winter of 2011-2012.

## The Newspaper

For this assignment, we had to summarize events form the book in the
style of a local newspaper.  My group would go on to print our
articles and arrange them on a poster board.  I remember one of the
girls in my group worked on Yearbook, so as a result our fake
newspaper ended up looking really good.

---

**ROME - Not even bandits take a day off for festivals.**  As
exuberant celebration flooded the streets last week, so did gang
activity.  Local authorities believe the festival may have been used
to shroud malicious activity.

Lt. Masoni Batali of the Roman Municipality released to the press that
felony peaked this year at during the Lent festival, possibly
indicating more is to come.

"When it comes to watching the yearly carnival, \[we’re\] usually
over-prepared," says Batali, "but reports like these usually mean
something a little more serious is happening."

Among the serious occurrences was the kidnapping of a nobleman’s son,
Albert de Morcerf.  Albert, while attending the festival, was
allegedly lured into a catacomb and held against his will for several
hours during some type of transaction.  Albert was recovered, but the
catacomb was completely evacuated by the time police arrived at the
scene.

Authorities believe this to be the working of an underground urban
organization involved in drug trafficking and slave trade.

The city council will meet this Thursday to discuss new regulations
for parades and festivals; there is even some talk of banning certain
parades.

Though changes are needed, protesters fear it is an encroachment on a
citizen’s right to celebrate a holiday innocently.  Either way, you
can expect the state to keep a closer watch on all festivities.

**POLITICAL PRISONER FALLS TO HIS DEATH IN A WATERY GRAVE.**  Edmond
Dantes, incarcerated for affiliation with the Usurper, broke free of
the impregnable Chateau d`IF prison only to be hurled from a lofty
bluff to his death.

Sentries found a fifty-foot tunnel dug underground with silverware,
leading to an adjacent cell.  Apparently, Dantes murdered the inmate,
then escaped in his body bag, thinking he’d be buried outside the
prison as a corpse.

All deceased prisoners of the Chateau d’If are usually disposed into
the ocean, weighted with a cannonball.  Such information would have
been more than just helpful to Edmond.

Essentially, he sprung from one prison into another – a prison that
he’ll most likely never escape from.

**HONEST BUSINESS MAN’S SINKING FIRM SAVED BY AN UNKNOWN BENEFACTOR.**
The shipping firm of Morrel and Sons, which was slipping away in
profound debt over the past few months, owes its salvation to an
anonymous patron, who is believed to be associated with the Roman firm
of Thompson and French.

Morrel was left a lustrous sum of money and a beautiful boat in his
harbor just as his company hit rock bottom.

"\[If it was\] a day later, I wouldn’t have been here," says Morrel,
"may God bless the Saint responsible for this."

Morrel and Sons is now at full operation and is even experiencing a
refreshing run of success.

As it turns out, grace has a name – and that name happens to be
anonymous.

**VENUS JUST DOESN’T SPIN LIKE IT USED TO.**  Astronomers say that
Venus’s rotation has taken a turn, but was it was for better or for
worse?

Last week, Venus went into retrograde – a truly unexpected phenomenon.

"From what we can tell, there is a high possibility of retrograde in
the planet’s movement, but there is always some uncertainty," says
Dr. Wendell Robes Pierre, a scientist at the observatory in Paris.

Concern surrounds the planet’s caprice.  The retrograde could have a
negative effect on the delicate equilibrium of our solar system,
especially due to its proximity to the earth.

How is that for some spin on the story?

## The News Room

For this assignment, we had to retell some of the stories from the
book in the form of an evening news bulletin which we would act out in
the front of the class.  Our group squeezed so many jokes into this
short skit it basically turned into a SNL episode of _Weekend Update_.
Christine played an odd, aloof astrology kook, but Stephanie stole the
show with a solid 19th century parody of Jim Kramer's _Mad Money_.

---

_Everyone’s head turned down._

Steph: (man-like voice) And we’re on in three... two... one...

All: \["Doo doo doo..."\]

Alex: Good morning, good morning Paris, I’m anchorman Alex.  Thanks
for tuning into the Rue Royale news hour, where the truth is always
stranger than fiction.  Today’s top story in Rome – trouble at the
lent festival.  Some alarming statistics just surfaced overnight.
Roman Municipalities released a statement saying gang violence made
quite a leap during yesterday’s parade.  Among the serious occurrences
was the kidnapping of nobleman’s son Albert de Morcerf.  Ladies and
Gentleman, crime is festering in Italy.  Celebrate lent as you will,
but try not to stumble down any dark allies.

Christine: (creepily) I live in a dark ally...

Alex: uh...speaking of dark, I think I hear the death knell!  No, it’s
not the reaper, it’s Stephanie Kang with the obituaries.  Go ahead
Steph...

Stephanie: Thanks Alex – a lot of death happening lately.
Particularly by means of poisoning.  The Marquis and Marquise of Saint
Meran, along with a servant of Nortier were taken mysteriously by what
some believe to be brucine.  There is no doubt heavy suspicion
surrounding the deaths.  The Villefort house has been crawling with
forensic specialists, but no further information yet.  Alex...

Alex: Thanks Steph.  An intense prison break at the Chateau d’If
unfolds.  A certain Edmond Dantes, incarcerated for his affiliation
with the Usurper, allegedly dug an underground passage with silverware
into an adjacent cell, murdered the inmate, and escaped through a body
bag.

Christine: (creepily, again) I’ll put you in a body bag...

Alex: Yikes.  Unfortunately, the prisoner was unaware that the
deceased in Château d’If are not buried, but hurled into the ocean.
Edmond plummeted down a fifty-foot drop to die a morbid, horrific
death.

Steph: I hate it when that happens!

All: \[Haughty laugh\]

Alex: What are the stars saying?  Let’s take it over to Dr. Christine
Garces for the astrology report.

Christine: Finally.  Leo.  Hi there. Today is your lucky day. You will
win the lottery and the count will bequeath you his entire fortune .
Any Taurus with us today?  Take it easy because the big test is over
with.  No need to worry about sp3 hybridization anymore.  Alex: What
are you talking about?

Christine: I don’t know.  I’m just making stuff up.  Scorpio?  Watch
out for scorpions... pretty self-explanatory.  Is there some Cancer in
the house?  Congratulations.  Someone has been kind to you. If your
initials are JF, pass on the favor by lightening the workload of your
students.  Let’s do Pisces now.  Um... Watch out for black cats, Luigi
Vampas, and tabloid papers that contain horoscopes.  Alright.  I’m
tired.  That’ll do.

Alex: Thanks Dr. Garces.  That was... uh... insightful.  In other
news, an honest businessman’s firm was saved from economical
annihilation.  Monsieur Morrel of Morrel and Son’s Shipping was saved
by an anonymous donation.  Allegedly, a purse with an impressive sum
of money was left to him as well as a brand new boat just as the
company hit rock bottom.  It appears that grace has a name, but this
time, that name happens to be anonymous.

Christine: (sarcastically) That doesn’t make any sense.

Alex: Why don’t you talk about the celebrity sightings, Christine?

Christine: Fine.  I’ll play your little game... The Count of Monte
Cristo himself was spotted at an A-lister party at the Morcerf
residence.  The count was sporting a beautiful emerald in which he
kept an array of sleeping pills.  Edourd Villefort and his mother were
seen in a carriage this morning.  Their horses were startled by
something, sending the two celebs flying up and down France.  Little
is known about its whereabouts at this moment.

Alex: Let’s go to Stephanie for our Mad Money financial update.

Steph: \[intense... hit table and point a lot\] I got one word for you
– sub prime loan!  This Spanish bond scandal is ripping us to shreds
and it’s gonna seek and destroy you and your mom’s house unless you
sell it like it’s hot.  Take a look at Danglars situation.  The guy
got burned out of a lot of francs.  I got a new golden rule for you –
sell, sell, sell.  Newsflash – you’re free falling and it’s time to
pull the ripcord!  Alex...

Alex: Thanks Stephanie.  It looks like that’ll do it for our show.
Remember, for more information about any of the stories mentioned,
pick up a copy of Rue Royale from your Laundromat, your grocery store,
even steal it from your hairdresser if you have to – because it’s not
just a tabloid.  It’s the truth.  Have a productive day.

All: \["doo... doo... doo"\]
