---
title: dinosaurs, the toy whisperer, and peak nerderdy
banner: 2021-01-05.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday, from me and my dining room
table.  The lights are dim.  Water gently trickles into the fish tank.
Distant thumping can be heard upstairs from Rodney's feet as he plays
some kind of dinosaur toy basketball game he invented.

It's funny watching Rodney toy preference change.  This week been he's
all about the dinosaurs.  Between big green _Hauncy_, his big scary
T-rex, and his five rubbery dinosaur toys that mark five successful
poop transactions, he's built up a quaint little dinosaur committee.
They all have different voices and personalities.  Conveniently for
Rodney they seem to get lost right around his bedtime.

There's no winning the lost dinosaur game.  Rodney always finds a way
to use them to fit in a last minute dinosaur hunting activity,
extending his already drawn out bedtime.  Just after climbing into bed
last night, he sat up looking scared.

"Hey, where are my dinosaurs?" he asked.

I rolled my eyes.  "I'll go grab 'em," I said, getting up from his
bed.

"Oh no problem, dad," said Rodney.  "I'll go with you - "

"No no no," I laughed, sitting him back down.  "You're already in bed.
Just stay here - I'll go grab them."

The minutes passed as I hunted for his lost gaggle of dinosaur
friends.  They weren't stuffed inside the couch cushions.  They
weren't scattered under the dining room table.  They weren't even
smothered underneath his toy power tools in favorite green backpack.

"Did you find them, dada?" called out Rodney, sounding just a little
too _knowing_.  "I come help you?"

"I can't find them dude," I said.  "I'm sorry - we'll just have to
find them tomorrow.  They're somewhere in the house - they're not
going anywhere."

Rodney looked dejected.  Suddenly I no longer felt like he was playing
me.  He didn't know where they were either.  The were really lost.
The two of us, now hell bent on finding them before bedtime, knew that
if anyone had a chance at finding them, it was the _toy whisperer_.

"Help!" I called out.  "We need the _toy whisperer_!"

Marissa stepped into the room.  Her instincts were already guiding her
in the hunt.  Her sharp senses followed the invisible clues.

"Did you check the sea patroller?" she asked.

"Which one is the sea patroller?" I asked.  Rodney had already climbed
out of bed, turning the corner into his closet.  He dragged out his
impressive Paw Patrol Sea Patroller toy.

"We're going to show this to dada," said Marissa, moving the large toy
boat to the bed.  "This is something he likes to do with his dinosaurs
and sometimes he forgets about them."

She turned, facing Rodney.  "OK Rod," she said.  "Can you show dada
how this opens?"

Rodney extended a tiny finger, finding a yellow button on the front of
the button.  He struggled force it down flush with the plastic.
Marissa gave him some extra help.  With a loud clatter, the doors of
the boat swung open and five wriggly dinosaurs tumbled onto the bed.

"The toy whisperer," I said, nodding with approval.

_Sip_.  So how's your week going so far?  Did you ease back into a
well-balanced work routine, or did you make the same mistake I did and
push yourself just a little too hard?  Yesterday was overwhelming, and
it was due to a combination of factors.  I happened to have a lot of
meetings yesterday.  It was the first day of my diet, and I was
feeling _hangry_.  Also, with baby Miles' front two teeth finally
cutting through, all of this happened over the backdrop of a fussy
baby crying across the hall.

It was a tough day, but it had its moments.  My new note taking system
is working well.  The pomodoro timer ran all day.  I was exhausted,
but as far as the work itself went, I absolutely crushed my to-do
list.

I finished out the work day with a quick jog.  After spending the
entire day inside, the crisp winter air felt refreshing.  The peace
lasted for about 100 feet, then all I felt was a cruel burning in my
lungs.  My first run lasted all of about five minutes, and it probably
took me twenty minutes to recover.

"You gotta start somewhere," encouraged Marissa.  "The first one is
always the worst."

Before I started on dinner, Marissa and I met for a long overdue
planning meeting.  We laughed at how unfamiliar everything seemed
after the long break we took from doing things around the house.  I
still had a single "small" sized task to my name.  I probably had a
little over five weeks to finish the simple one time wiping the
washing machine cover clean, and I still didn't get to it.

"That's OK," said Marissa.  "Let's just reset everything and start
fresh."

"Except for that washing machine cover card," I laughed.  "I'll
finally do it today."

The board has been great, but I think this year we're going to move
things back into the electronic realm.  The whiteboard and index cards
have a very cozy appeal, but ironically it's becoming kind of a chore
to maintain.  We have to keep the index cards organized, the color
coded stickers stocked, and hunting down the Sharpies that keep
mysteriously wandering out of our room.

"I'll move everything to github," I said.  "The issue tracking is
actually pretty good, and it's by far the simplest."

By the end of the week, I'll have all of our hand written index cards
moved to Github issues.  And if that isn't peak nerderdy, I don't know
what is.  Might as well lean into it.  I'll tell you what, after I get
it working, I'll make my first live stream of the year to show it off.
Gotta keep plugging away at the New Year's resolutions.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you all have a great day today.
Remember to rest, drink water, and take things slow if you are still
adjusting to regular life.  Have a happy Tuesday, everyone.
