---
title: motivation, exotic pets, and a real airplane
banner: 2021-03-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Oof.  This morning is a struggle - I feel like there isn't enough hot
coffee in the world right now to keep me interested.  As I was getting
ready for the day, Ziggy met eyes with me before sprawling out on my
side of the bed, almost like she was taunting me.  _Haha - I get to
keep sleeping, you have to get ready for work_, she said in her own
way.  I'm not going to lie, I envy the dogs' morning routine.  Imagine
if all you had to do in the morning was get out of bed, take a big pee
outside, scarf down some breakfast, and then trot upstairs back to
bed.  That would be a pretty good life.

I'm tired today, but don't worry about me, everyone.  I'm a
professional.  When it comes to mornings like these, it's all about
having a plan to look forward to for when you finally reach the finish
line.  Here's my plan:

First, we dress down today - about as casually as we can get away
with.  I have lots of zooms today, so I can't just outright wear
pajamas.  But we can do something sneaky like a plain t shirt and
pajama pants, and these pajama pants will serve as a constant reminder
of the evening we have planned.

Secondly, we order food.  We've been holding it down all week with
homemade meals.  We're going to grill tomorrow, but tonight the
combination of an evening Hawks game and a long stretch of meetings up
until five make for the perfect excuse to order out.  When Marissa
comes down the stairs I'm going to pitch that we put our food order in
early - around lunch time.  With some calculation, we can rig up this
evening so we can nap up until our food arrives and have it plated
just before the puck drops tonight at seven.  A nap, hot take out, and
a hockey game.  I think that's enough to keep me motivated today.

_Sip_.  How are you today?  What's keeping you awake?  Do you have
anything you're looking forward to at the end of the day, or will just
knowing tomorrow's Friday be enough?

I'm a little tired today, but I think that's definitely my own doing.
It's been a busy week.  Yesterday I spent most of the day swerving in
and out of zoom meetings and slack messages.  I had lots of chores to
catch up on in the evening.  I made a little progress, but as the oven
clock creeped closer to our hard cut at 11 PM, I decided to shift my
focus to French toast.  Using an old baguette we bought earlier this
week, I whipped up a quick batch.  I used the prettiest pieces to make
a surprise over-the-top evening dessert for me and Marissa to share.
I planted a scoop of icecream on top, drizzled it with chocolate
syrup, and dusted the plate with powdered sugar.  Do I regret that we
finish the whole thing in seconds before we even thought to take a
picture?  Not really.  With a snack like that - a cold scoop of
icecream sliding around on a warm piece of french toast - stopping to
take a picture would just cheapen the experience.  I left the leftover
pieces to cool on a plate, and they're waiting in the fridge for
Rodney.  He's in for a good surprise when he wakes up expecting to
find his usual bowl of dried cereal.

I stayed up a little late too.  I sacrificed some sleep in order to
reclaim some down time.  Marissa and I stayed up for a little bit
upstairs, working on the computer.  I finished my drink and hacked a
bit on the new cookbook website.

Yesterday was a good, full day.  Work was busy, but we got a lot done.
We made some spaghetti for dinner.  In the evening we jumped on our
standing Zoom appointment with our college friends.  It was a slow
night - the only other people to join were Lauren and Eric with their
new baby Jason, but it was a nice opportunity to dive deeply into our
mutual hobbies without worrying about a packed zoom room.  We talked
hockey with Eric.  We were grateful he was available to explain some
changes they just made to the NHL lottery.  "It was pretty much
because of Detroit," He said.  "They finished dead last in the league.
The really needed a good draft, but they only got like fourth pick."

And with Lauren, we discussed exotic pets.  "Sometimes I convince
myself that I want a parrot," said Marissa.

"Oh, parrots are too much work," Lauren sighed.  "They're basically
like toddlers that can fly, and I decided that I didn't need that."

"I'd kind of like a tarantula," I butted in.  "Do you think I could
handle that."

"Oh definitely," said Lauren.  "Tarantulas are great pets, as long as
you don't mind feeding them live crickets."

"I keep telling Alex that I'm nervous about having a tarantula around
two boys," said Marissa.  "I feel like at some point they're going to,
you know, prank mom by leaving it my bed or something."  A fair
point - if we had a tarantula, that does sound like something we'd do
at least once.

Rodney wiggled his body behind me in view of the camera to draw
everyone's attention.  We gave him the floor for a minute to show off
some of his k'nex creations.  Earlier that day, Rodney has succeeded
in luring me into his room during quiet time to help with his
airplane.

"I'm building a REAL airplane," said Rodney excitedly.  "These are the
wings, and these are the wheels, and this is the _puh-peller_."  To
demonstrate, he held the flimsy frame around his waste.  The
_puh-peller_ was attached to a small motor that he controlled with a
little switch in his hand.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-25-airplane.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 25 airplane" src="/images/2021-03-25-airplane.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Thursday, everyone.
