---
title: a book about the reckers, a tough month, and surprise blackhawks logos
banner: 2021-02-03.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Wednesday.  All week I've been
collecting old photos of my grandpa in an online album.  I've been
chatting with some family members too.  Great Uncle Don sent over a
handful of interesting, well-written anecdotes.  My Uncle Steve added
a trove of old scanned photos.  It's been a family history kind of
week.

Did you know that there is a book written about the Recker family?  My
Uncle sent me a link to the book _[A Name for Herself: A Dutch
Immigrant's Story]_.  Just read this tagline:

> The Reckers, like many blue-collar immigrants, were rolling stones,
> going back and forth between south Chicago suburbs and Wisconsin and
> Montana. The men ride the rails as hobos, dabble in farming,
> building Pullman Palace cars--anything to get by. They see Chicago
> mobsters rob a bank and run booze, all the while trying to live as
> faithful Dutch Reformed Christians.

[A Name for Herself: A Dutch Immigrant's Story]: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1725275384/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1

Like a reflex, I clicked the _Add to cart_ button as soon as my eyes
found those words.  My family has long touted our Dutch heritage.
Growing up, my sisters and I each had to do the same school project
where we made a poster board pie chart of our family's cultural
lineage.  Ours was just a solid circle labeled _DUTCH_.

I knew it was true on my mother's side.  The only way her maiden name
_Geertsema_ could be more Dutch is if were proceeded by a _van_ or
served with gouda.  Her father - my grandpa - came over from the
Netherlands, and his English sounded more like Dutch.  No shadow of a
doubt there.

But the name _Recker_ never sounded very Dutch to me.  I assumed
things got kind of murky and that we picked up some German or Austrian
relatives along the way.  I couldn't point to a person in recent
memory who was actually from our alleged motherland.

I read the first few pages on the Amazon preview.  The book opens with
a story about Alrich Recker, a proud carpenter reluctantly filing for
unemployment in Harlem, Holland.  I had already bought the book, but I
knew if I clicked away and started reading the electronic copy, I
would have just spent my whole work day reading.  Something to look
forward to.

I also sent the book to my "work cousin" Paige.  My company hired
Paige over the summer while I was gone for paternity leave.  We share
a last name - exact spelling and everything.  We couldn't conclusively
find how we were related, so until further notice we're just "work
cousins".  I sent her the link, and she too bought the book on the
spot.

_Sip_.  So happy Wednesday.  How are you feeling today?  I hope you
have been spared from what Marissa and I have deemed the worst month
ever.  Last night, I let the dogs back into the house, and they ran
ahead expecting us to follow them upstairs.  Marissa and I were
reluctant to turn in for the night, and I had a little more wine in my
glass.  So we stayed up a few minutes chatting in the kitchen.

"Can I be honest?" she said.  "I was dreading this month for a while.
I knew it would be the worst."

Heading into this year, our city was more optimistic about getting
vaccines out by March.  Marissa read rumors about a home COVID test
kit that yielded immediate results.  We consoled ourselves during the
bleak December and January evenings, imagining we'd be getting
vaccines and using home tests to coordinate careful visits with family
as early as spring time.  Most estimates now report this may not
happen until late summer.  I guess deep down Marissa knew that the
estimation would slip by a few months.

"I read that the tests were supposed to be at Walgreen's and stuff in
January," said Marissa.  "I think I've been sad this week because
January has officially gone, and that's not true."

Emotionally, this has been a tough time.  We're holding on to anger
and bitterness.  We're tired.  We're plagued with guilt and doubt over
our failure to entertain our curious and extroverted four year old.
We're tired of raising a baby in secret.

Feeling a little glum yesterday, I wasn't up for making a big meal.
While Rodney's giant remote control monster truck skidded around the
kitchen, I prepared chicken noodle soup.  Just some carrots, onions,
and celery in butter, chicken stock, and noodles.

While we're on the subject, I do have a pretty good Chicken noodle
soup tip.  It's a well known fact that I can't make anything without
messing with the recipe or adding something unexpected, even chicken
noodle soup.  Yesterday I added a dash of curry to the vegetables
while they were sweating in the pot.  The fragrant powder turned the
soup to a radioactive yellow, so I corrected the color with a dash of
soy sauce.  The two flavors combined beautifully.  Curry and soy
sauce - two distinct flavors that work very well in chicken soup, and
almost impossible to diagnose in the finished product.

The Blackhawks also played yesterday.  The third period was about to
begin just as Rodney was getting ready for bed.  He found Marissa in
the living room to say goodnight.  He asked Marissa a question.  In a
hushed voice, I heard Marissa acknowledge him and send him around the
corner to me.

"Dada", said Rodney.  "I have a TV in my room so I can watch the
Hawks?"

I burst into laughter.  Marissa chuckled form around the corner.  I
decided to call her bluff.

"Sure dude," I said.  "You're almost five.  A five year old boy should
_definitely_ have a big screen TV in his room for playing xbox and
watching sports.  Why don't we just move the living room TV in there
for tonight?"

The sarcasm was lost on Rodney.  To deescalate his disappointment, we
let him stay up past his bedtime to watch more of the game.  During a
commercial break, Marissa disappeared around the corner to make a
drink.  She returned, grinning behind a new Blackhawks drinking glass
that I had never seen before.  I broke out into laughter.

At the beginning of the hockey season, we agreed to budget some money
to buy some Blackhawks swag.  Marissa offered to show me what she
picked out, but I instead chose a more interesting option.

"Don't tell me - it will be more fun to just see surprise Blackhawks
logos appear around the house."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Wednesday, everyone.
