---
title: miles' birthday and ice skating
banner: 2021-05-06.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  Like an absolute dummy, I
sacrificed twenty minutes of sleep last night so I could hack on a
side project.  I'm working on a program that will scan every word in
my journal entries and turn them into a word cloud.  After so many
entries, the ol' blog has become a very rich and interesting data set,
but also a real scaling challenge.  As I continually tweak the
algorithm to "normalize" words (strip out symbols, markup, numbers,
etc.), I've noticed that even the smallest change can add entire
minutes to the program's running time, and I feel incredibly lucky.
One of the biggest problems with side projects is that they rarely get
big enough to create any interesting problems.  But scanning,
sanitizing, and sorting over 700,000 words?  What an addictive puzzle!

But enough computer stuff.  We'll save that for a rainy day.  It's
time to set all the programming nerdery aside and bring out the main
course.  It's time for me to comment on the weather, ramble about my
day, and take a sip of coffee.

_Sip_.  It's good to be here everyone.  I hope the boring parts of
your week like meetings and chores are flying by, and that things are
slowing down for the good parts like naps, meals, and birthday cake.

Yesterday was Miles' birthday.  It was a quiet, dignified birthday.
He sat content in his high chair like it was any other day.  We
brought out a homemade birthday cake to paw at.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-cake-1.jpg">
    <img alt="cake-1" src="/images/2021-05-06-cake-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-cake-2.jpg">
    <img alt="cake-2" src="/images/2021-05-06-cake-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-cake-3.jpg">
    <img alt="cake-3" src="/images/2021-05-06-cake-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

At first, Marissa attempted to draw a chess piece on the top.  But she
couldn't quite capture the nuances of a chess piece without drawing
something that made her uncomfortable, so she wiped it clean and just
wrote CHESS on the top instead.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-cake-4.jpg">
    <img alt="cake-4" src="/images/2021-05-06-cake-4.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Art was never really one of Marissa's strengths anyway.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

After getting Miles cleaned up, we relocated to the dining room to
open up his presents.  Miles kept trying to make a break for the
stairs.  Each time he crawled away, Marissa gently dragged him back
into the middle of the action by his ankle.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-presents.jpg">
    <img alt="presents" src="/images/2021-05-06-presents.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

And then it was all finished.  Miles started to putter around with his
toys and Rodney helped me throw away the garbage.  Marissa and I
remembered what a real 1 year old birthday felt like.  It's hard to
keep the party rocking with a distracted 1 year old.

"Remember Rodney's party?" commented Marissa.  "It was basically just
like a regular party, and I remember why.  They're just not that
interested in it when they're that young."

The other big news of the day was Rodney's first ice skating lesson.
We talked it up to each other all day until it was finally in striking
distance.  After work, Rodney and I put on some warm clothes and
started to gather our things.  From the pile of toys that Rodney
wanted to bring along, we reached a sensible compromise.

"You can bring your spider," I told him.  "But the sword, shield, and
ninja gear are just a little much."

The rink was much closer to our house than I thought - just a five
minute drive across the adjacent street.  From the back seat, Rodney
filled my ear with wild fantasies of meeting _Kaner_, following him
back to _Cah-go_, and resuming our skate lesson with the Chicago
Blackhawks.  None of that happened, but Rodney was just as excited to
see the big ice rink and all the other kids his age waiting in line.

Rodney chatted up other kids.  He politely waved at other parents.  He
cooed at babies.  He even had the lady at the registration desk
laughing showing her all the tricks his spider could do.  Rodney was
brimming with confidence.  The lady at the desk directed us to the
back corner where Rodney's dainty rental skates were waiting.

His rental skates were on the small side.  It was a bit of a process
wedging his feet inside, but once we managed I gave them the authentic
hockey skates treatment, tying the laces tightly all the way up past
his ankle.  Rodney stood, balancing deftly on the metal blades.  Ready
for take-off.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-skating-1.jpg">
    <img alt="skating-1" src="/images/2021-05-06-skating-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

There were only about four other kids in his class.  One of the kids
was dressed in full hockey pads, and Rodney was envious.  The teacher
had them practice falling down outside the rink.  "To get back up,"
she explained, "Go on your knees like a puppy, bring one knee up, and
push off your knee until you are standing up tall."

During this introductory period, Rodney was a star pupil.  The teacher
reviewed the steps, pausing and the second steps - "and then you...?"

"Go on your knees, like a puppy!" said Rodney proudly.

"Very good, Rodney!" she commended.  Rodney beamed with pride.

Things took a turn when it was time to climb out onto the ice.  Rodney
panicked, having the same look of panic in his eyes as a corgi who was
about to get dropped in a soapy bathtub.  He froze up, clutching my
arm in fear.  His ankles began to wobble.

We practiced falling and standing back up again, this time gathered in
the corner of the ice rink.  It wasn't as fun for Rodney.  The ice was
hard and cold.  His rental skates felt so small and wobbly.  He fell
to the ground.

"I think I'm pretty done," he said.  "I want to get off the ice."

It was good timing that the teacher wheeled out a cart of plastic
toys.  The kids in the class were instructed to pick something out,
throw it across the ice, and go fetch it, taking "tiny marches" along
the way.  The cart filled with exciting toys kept Rodney's head in the
game.  Still clutching my sweater sleeve, we took tiny marches
together all the way across the ice.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-skating-2.jpg">
    <img alt="skating-2" src="/images/2021-05-06-skating-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

He flung a ping hula-hoop.  It skittered along the ice.  We took slow,
steady marches until we reached it again.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-skating-3.jpg">
    <img alt="skating-3" src="/images/2021-05-06-skating-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-skating-4.jpg">
    <img alt="skating-4" src="/images/2021-05-06-skating-4.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>


When we had finally reached the pink hula hoop, Rodney was exhausted.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-06-skating-5.jpg">
    <img alt="skating-n" src="/images/2021-05-06-skating-5.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Our teacher rounded us up again, telling us the first class was
finished.  Rodney seemed a little dazed, walking all the way to our
car in the parking lot.  He tried to carry on a conversation about how
his spider wanted to try ice skating too, but I could hear a small
lump forming in his throat.  When he made it to his car seat, he broke
down.

"I don't really like ice skating," he said.  "I'm not pretty good at
it."  He buried his head in his hands and began to cry.

"Hey, it's OK buddy," I said consoling him.  "Nobody expects you to be
good at something you've never tried before.  And plus, I think those
rental skates didn't fit you very well.  We'll find a different pair
for you."

"Hockey pads too," Rodney added.

That night, I pulled the book _Hockey is for Me_ off his shelf for
story time.  It's a book written by hockey player Jamal Mayers about
how he fell and was teased the first time he tried to ice skate.  The
message hit home for Rodney.

"Ice skating is kind of pretty tricky," said Rodney.

"Dude, I thought you did awesome," I said.  I pulled out my phone.
Rodney looked at the pictures of himself on the ice.

"I'm ice skating," he said.
p
After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I stood outside his door for
a few minutes quietly listening to Rodney recap the day for his big
green dinosaur Hauncy.  He explained to Hauncy how to go on his knees
like a puppy and stand-up on ice skates.  He told Hauncy about how
cold the ice was and how tricky it was to stay on his feet.  He read
through _Hockey is for Me_ just one more time, using his own words.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Remember - if you fall, just get on
your knees like a puppy, stand up tall and proud, and keep taking tiny
marches forward.  Have a good day everyone.
