---
title: sledgehammers, fight night, and being called sweetie
banner: 2021-01-12.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Let's have a Tuesday.  Sure, why not?

How are you feeling today?  Today I feel hopeful.  My calendar is wide
open, and that bodes well for a pretty big challenge that I took on
this week.  Another team at our company needed to push out some
changes that were time sensitive, and they were blocked by some
mysterious and inconsistent problems that would crop up when talking
to our secret vault.  The idea of upgrading the vault and hoping the
issue gets fixed was floated out there in a group discussion.  I
suggested instead that I take one day to see if I can fix it without
the nuclear option, but after spending an entire workday in the weeds
yesterday, I think that's the best option.  Today I have a wide open
day ahead of me, and that excites me.  That's almost a whole solitary
work day to plan the most swift and thorough vault upgrade ever done.
When your time and energy converge like this, good things can happen.

_Sip_.  Yesterday, though.  _Mondays, right?_  Marissa and I like to
say that to each other in the morning when we're just sipping coffeen
at the table and there's nothing else to talk about.  But yesterday,
still feeling down about letting a scammer sweet talk our bank login,
she said it with some sincerity.

"He didn't actually get any money," I reminded her.  "It could have
been a lot worse."

"I know," sighed Marissa.  "I just feel embarrassed.  It's kind of
like... if I were in a fitting Target room while the door fell off and
30 people saw me in my underwear.  There was no damage, but the whole
thing just left me feeling so embarrassed."

We set aside all of yesterday to get to the bank and figure it out.
We debated whether or not to go in together.

"I don't know," I said.  "Maybe going in there with two kids might
make them a little more eager to get us out of there.  I'm just
worried they're going to waste your time."

"I'd be too worried about Rodney and Miles," said Marissa.  "That's a
long time to be in a building, I'd rather not risk them getting sick."

Talking to the banker over the phone, Marissa learned about what is
probably the most annoying policy ever enforced by a bank.  "BMO says
that they won't un-freeze our account until we have my computer
wiped."

I nearly choked on my coffee.  "Your _computer_?"

"It's BMO's policy," said Marissa.  "Since I happened to mention both
my laptop and our desktop computer, the banker said that she can't
move forward until I bring both hard drives to Geek Squad."

Marissa explained that I was in IT and would be happy to wipe the
computers myself, but the banker dug in.  "She needs to see a receipt
from a computer repair store," said Marissa.

I made a conscious effort to change my attitude.  The hassle of
lifting and shifting our bank accounts was only beginning, and it
wouldn't be wise to dig in so soon.  So I grabbed two completely
useless hard drives out of my closet and jumped in the car, heading to
Geek Squad.

An employee in a wrinkled red polo tiredly approached me at the
counter.  The words _what can I do for you today_ leaked out of his
mouth.

"Quick story," I said.  "My bank account was hacked, and the bank
won't un-freeze my account until I get my hard drive wiped here."

We went back and forth.  I tried to hide the fact that I was feeling
defensive soliciting help from a Geek Squad.  I tried to convey with
my tone that this was just a silly formality.  "What's the fastest
this can get done."

He picked up my hard drive and inspected the label.  "Probably a half
hour?  I mean that's the fastest without _destroying it_..."

My eyes lit up.  "What if you destroy it?" I asked.

"Oh I can do that right now," he replied.

"What, do you guys have a sledgehammer back there?" I asked, expecting
him to explain.

"Yes," he replied.  "We just use a sledgehammer."

The four other employees followed him into the back room with my hard
drives.  I could tell that they enjoyed this part of the job and just
wanted something fun to do.  The hammer made a thud against the metal.
Through the plastic curtain I could hear them all take a few swings at
my hard drive.

"OK, Mr. Recker," he said bringing a zipped bag of rattling broken
pieces back to the counter.  "Your service request is complete.  I'll
print out a service form to bring to your bank."

He slid me over a sheet of paper.  He had written _hard drive was hit
with a sledgehammer until unrecoverable_.  The bill total was zero
dollars.  It all felt weirdly like a modern rendition of an Old
Testament sacrifice - an innocent hard drive put to death to cover a
theft.

"This was free?" I said, elated.

"Yep - free" he repeated.  "We just hit it with a hammer after all."

For dramatic effect, I had Marissa bring in the broken hard drives.  I
tried to talk her into playing dumb and asking the banker something
like "where did Geek Squad put all of my family photos?" before
exploding into inconsolable tears.  Marissa was more honorable than I
would have been.

The banker told Marissa the appointment would take an hour.  She was
there for three hours.  In the time she sat there, the banker tried to
get her to open a new credit card and upgrade our checking and savings
accounts.  They called her _sweetie_.  They even gave her crap about
her Bears face mask.  Hearing about her experience, it seemed kind of
ironic that they were far less respectful than the scammer that
pretended to work for BMO.  At least he didn't call Marissa _sweetie_.

Marissa cooked shrimp for dinner.  Gathered in the living room
watching YouTube, we spontaneously broke out into a family wrestling
match.  Rodney jumped on top of me and we rolled off the couch to the
floor.  Marissa joined the dog pile.  For the next half hour, we'd
take out all the frustration garnered from BMO into a living room
family fight night.  Marissa tight the legs of Rodney's pants together
at the ankles, and when his pants inevitably slipped off his legs,
Marissa wore them like a fighting mask.

It was a good day.  Thanks for stopping by today, hope you have a
wonderful day.
