#+TITLE: Touching Base
#+DATE: <2014-05-28 Wed>
#+SUBTITLE: Just keeping the blogger-reader connection alive with general thoughts and impressions of the direction of this blog. Also, bulldozers and the use of the word ‘Programmy’.

I’m taking a break from all the chemistry stuff for now. If you
thought that was just going to be my uninterrupted theme for eight
months and that bummed you out, don’t worry. I was imagining more it
would just be a series that I visit periodically, appending whatever
comes to mind.

If you are one of those people who need everything to be in a series,
then fine - just call this one Short bursts of unrelated content .

I'm getting married in 17 days. Maybe it's been nerves, but it's
harder to focus on bigger themes (or do one thing for longer than two
hours). The most I feel like doing now is simply Touching Bases . Mind
if I touch yours, dear reader?

* The direction of this blog

I have been thinking a lot about the direction of this blog - the
first being the technology itself. Since the migration away from
Wordpress, I have already changed the underlying framework twice. I
submitted the new design to Reddit critics, and a general consensus
admitted that though the idea was novel, it was kind of useless. One
user pointed out I was basically renting a bulldozer to help build a
sandcastle.

#+CAPTION: Or was it renting a bulldozer to build more bulldozers...
[[file:images/bulldozer.jpg]]

Since then, I have switched over to the micro framework Flask , but in
the latest iterations I am even still under-using my framework. As it
turns out, you can put whatever you want in the address bar following
the site address, like ~alexrecker.com/yo-mommas-so-ugly/~ , and my
web server code basically just sticks a ~.html~ at the end of it. If
an error is thrown, it redirects you to a “missing page”.

#+CAPTION: Now that I mention it, I don’t have a 404 page. I am taking suggestions though.
[[file:images/404-example.jpg]]

This happens to be the most important part of the site:

#+BEGIN_SRC python
  @app.route(“/<slug>/”)
  def get_post(slug):
      try:
	  post = open(join(appconfig.cache, slug + '.html'), 'r').read()
	  return post
      except:
	  missing_page = open(join(appconfig.cache, ‘404.html’), ‘r’).read()
	  return missing_page
#+END_SRC

When I actually want to write a post, I just create a new ~.md~ file
named in year-month-date format and run a big ~admin.py~ script I
wrote. This sucks the text file in (along with every other page of the
site), and pukes it through one of four templates that prettifies
everything. I’m not even really using a ton of javascript (just a glob
or two).

In the same spirit, I got tired of maintaining three files. I combined
the entire site into one file. It sounds like it would be a lot of
code, but it is only 260 lines. You can check out the current version
[[https://github.com/arecker/Blog/blob/master/admin.py][here]].

I’m not sure if this design is amazing or retarded, but time will
tell. Ultimately, what determines the genius of a code design is how
easy it is to maintain. If you visit my page tomorrow and are greeted
by the fine marketing material of America’s favorite male enhancement
pill, then you may presume I am rethinking things. But I am comforted
by this - you can always break beautiful things, hack secure things,
find weird cases for complicated things, and teach lazy programmers a
lesson - but there is no good way to hack stupid . There is literally
no place to post or save information on my blog. The comments are just
iframes of Facebook and the search box is a dummy placeholder for
text.

And then there is the content side of things. I have been seduced by
my analytics page more than once. I even considered the extreme
solution of locking myself out of seeing the number of hits per
second. Refreshing the page all day encourages me to write click
bait. If I continue down this path of people-pleasing posts, in no
time I will be just blatantly targeting the Farmville crowd. Thirty
totally pimped out Farmville rigs. /#28 will make you LITERALLY PUKE
all over yourself/.

* Planned features

The biggest thing I am working on now is a way to subscribe by
email. I don’t think it is something that would be heavily used, but
it just sounds like the most fun thing I could be working on right
now. It will probably look like a little popup window containing a
single-page-app (dorks feel the need to call them SPA’s , which feels
a lot harder to say than “single page app”). In any case, if you live
out of your email and you like to stay on top of blogs that way, it
should be right up your alley.

* Getting programmy

Speaking of code, this post is about “programmy” as I think I am going
to get. I don’t think I want to turn this into a development blog - 1
part because I still sort of suck at programming, and 2 parts because
that kind of writing is not quite as cathartic as spewing hate about a
dumb movie you saw or projecting ridiculous social theories. All in
all, the rule of thumb is that I never expose you to enough code talk
to inspire Marissa to throw something at my head.

* Guest writers

And, again, I open the door for guest writers. If you are thinking
about writing a blog yourself, the best thing to do is write a post
for someone else’s blog. It gives you the ability to better estimate
the kind of commitment it is, and it gets you a decent number of
readers to start off with. If anyone would like to write something
that would not get my domain flagged by the NSA or make my parents
uncomfortable, send it off!

So that’s it. Consider all your bases touched, dear reader. Goodnight,
Internet friends.
