---
title: Clockwork Orange
description: Time for a bit of the ‘ol Kubrick Week, eh readers? This week we take on the mental flogging that is Clockwork Orange. I’ll be rebuilding my sense of morality all week.
permalink: /clockwork-orange.html
---

# Alex's Thoughts

Now this is more what I expected from Kubrick week. I had no idea what
to expect, and - in a way - I still have no idea what I’ve just
watched. I had to take some extra time to digest this movie.

Clockwork Orange was intense, provocative, and cryptic. It follows a
teenage boy through a dystopia future, detailing his obsession with
sex and violence. While out on one of his capers, Alex is betrayed by
his friends and nabbed by the police. He effortlessly demonstrates his
charisma in prison, which attracts the attention of a shady doctor who
offers to heal him of his ‘violence addiction’.

Alex happily agrees and is subjected to a week of graphic films and
induced nausea. When the experiment concludes, he is left broken and
depressed, helpless against a wave of reflex sickness when he looks at
a women or is confronted with violence. It eventually takes a failed
suicide attempt for the doctors to recollect Alex and reverse the
treatment.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/marinafight.png">
    <img alt="marinafight" src="/images/marinafight.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>There were
also plenty of scenes that made me feel like I was watching Jackass</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Normally in movies, books, and cartoons we are taught that there are
two kinds of desires. There’s the finer part of you, and the animal in
you. The finer part of you likes jazz, fresh salads, and reading. The
animal in you likes fart jokes, drinking way too much beer, and
flexing in the mirror.

For as long as I can remember I have been under the impression that my
desires split at this fork in the road. But watching this movie was
the first time I’ve been brought to challenge that assumption.

What if, as Kubrick teases, there is basically one type of desire?
What if the same part of you that enjoys your dad’s old Coltrane tapes
is fundamentally the same part of you that enjoys popping a really big
blister? What if an art student admiring the Mona Lisa is no different
that one monkey admiring another’s fecal smearing? What if we are all
basically animals?

This is how I view Alex. He is a human being given the power to see
through this false dichotomy. To him, watching a naked women frolic in
his bedroom is appreciated with the same fervor as the masterpiece of
Beethoven’s ninth.

OK - take the art in the movie. Everybody’s home is shamelessly
decorated with gratuitously sexual art (exaggerated breasts, graphic
sex scenes, sculpted genitals, etc). I don’t think Kubrick was just
trying to be weird.

I think the paintings looked different exclusively to Alex. The home
owners in the movie would have defended their innocence - “I like the
colors and textures,” - that kind of thing.

But Alex thinks this is hilarious. At one point in the movie, he even
picks up a large statue of a phallus and jeers at the homeowner,
“Naughty Naughty!” It’s as if Alex saw right through her claim to fine
taste and was mocking the real reason she was drawn to piece.

There is another scene where Alex is grossly fascinated with the
Bible. Though the reverend praises him for his piety, we see that Alex
is simply drawn to the sex and violence littered throughout all of
Scripture. Again, he is seeing the real reason people pick up the
Bible.

The offensive suggestion here is that there are no finer tastes. There
is only one type of desire. We are just animals wandering a big
jungle, surrounding ourselves with things that arouse us. And if that
were really true, every piece of art might as well be a giant phallus.

It’s a dark perspective, but we can take a minute to appreciate the
challenge. Think about it - if someone studied your attraction to your
husband or wife and hypothesized that it’s simply a chemical
attraction, would you be able to prove them wrong?

Clockwork Orange makes a crisis out of something too many people take
for granted. We proudly defend our humanity saying, “Look! I can
choose what I do!” But examining this with the same suspicion Alex
had, we really don’t have any choice at all. We can either give
ourselves pleasure, or withhold ourselves pleasure. We cannot change
what gives us pleasure. If that were true, by the film’s standards, ‘A
man that cannot choose is not really a man at all.’

If we cannot change what gives us pleasure, then what is really that
moral about simply withholding pleasure? I’m thinking of the moment
when the scientists parade the “cured” prisoner in front of an
audience. They marvel as a naked woman flaunts herself in front of
Alex, but he is too sick to lay a finger on her. Meanwhile, everyone
in the audience is free to stare at her beauty.

The film is very dirty, but does a great job of equivocating the
classical sense of morality over a back drop of visually fascinating
screen work.


## Alex's Rating

Excellent film, as long as you don’t mind a bit of the ‘ol ultra
violence. (I think I’m also going to be stuck on the “little bit of
the ‘ol” thing for a while. I can’t stop saying it).

10/10

## Marissa's Thoughts

Alex and I were particularly excited when the movie A Clockwork Orange
was next up in our list of Kubrick movies. The little we knew about
the movie was that it is particularly odd and quirky. After just
finishing Barry Lyndon, we were excited for some classic Kubrick
weirdness. After watching A Clockwork Orange we were definitely not
disappointed.

While watching the movie it seemed like at every turn was something
unexplained or unexpected. It left quite a lot to process and try to
dissect to find Kubricks intentions. But, there was one scene in
particular in the film that I based most of my understanding of the
movie off of. There was a moment when the main character Alex was in
his room. On his wall there was a rather errotic painting and below
the painting was his pet snake sitting on a branch hung on the
wall. But below that was a small sculpture of four Jesus figures with
their arms around one another. I couldn’t help but think that this
must be symbolic. The painting on the wall was at the highest point of
the symbolic hierarchy, which I assumed represented the desires of
man, then next was the snake, which I assumed represented Satan and
sin, and finally were the four Jesus figures, representing goodness,
purity, and godliness. This theme seemed to continue throughout the
rest of the film. The most important component of each character's
life seemed to be their sexuality and their desires based on the
physicality of the people around them. This was sadly clear after
several rape scenes in the film. Then it seemed that the second most
significant component of each characters’ lives were any other desires
and finally, last on the totem pole, was anything that involved
benefiting the people around them.

This flip in significance of the various parts of life relates to the
other main point that I got from this movie. This second point is the
question of what truly makes a man moral, or how do we define the
morality of man. This movie creatively forces that question upon the
audience after portraying a character as immoral and then making they
seem moral and vise versa. There is also a large portion of the movie
dedicated to an experiment that tries to use science as a way to make
an immoral person moral. The character Alex finds himself in jail and
then in the experimental process of correcting him into being a decent
human being. What the film ends up with is that science was not able
to ultimately be the decider in whether or not a man is moral. But the
question of what truly does make human beings moral or immoral is
something that you will have to decide for yourselves after seeing A
Clockwork Orange.

## Marissa's Rating

A Clockwork Orange is a beautiful film with fantastic music, fantastic
acting, and an extremely creative story that asks one of the most
profound questions possible for humanity. Overall I think i’ll have to
agree with Alex that the movie is a 10/10.
