---
title: nostalgia, market, and gnocchi
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning! Hope everyone is having a wonderful weekend. On Friday, we
had the interns and Andrew over for the end of the summer pizza party I
had been promising. It was a great time, and it was actually pretty easy
to get two pizzas in and out of the oven with all the extra help. It was
a great evening of reminiscing.

Talking to newly graduated interns must have put me in a nostalgic mood.
Later that night, I was procrastinating cleaning up after the party by
hanging out in the basement with Marissa while she cut frames. I started
rifling through my "keep's sake" bin, which is filled with photos,
school papers, notes, and strange little trinkets from my childhood. I
have an old coke I got on a train going through the grand canyon, and
it's still filled with coke. As I explained to Marissa, it's not
valuable or anything - I just made a pact with Kelly to not open our
respective coke bottles. I think it was just to bother Sarah, who
immediately opened hers and quickly drank it on the train. But there it
is twenty years later still unopened, and I'm pretty sure Kelly hasn't
opened hers either.

We went to bed late on Friday, and gave ourselves a late start Saturday
morning. I finished cleaning the kitchen from the party, and made some
Dutch babies. We were eating a big breakfast because our plans would
take us on a bus to the Farmer's market. Now this was technically our
first time at the Weekend farmer's market, but I had walked by the much
smaller Wednesday market plenty of times, so I was expecting about a
dozen vegetable stands, and maybe a food cart or two. I had no idea that
on Saturday's during the summer, they shut down the whole square and the
booths pretty much wrapped all the way around the capital. It was a bit
of a fiasco. Rodney, Marissa, and I quickly got overwhelmed waddling
through the crowd. But we regrouped at Starbucks, and after spending
some time in the AC drinking familiar coffee, we got a second wind and
perused the rest of the shops. We picked up some kale, cherry tomatoes,
apples, and a beautiful stalk of sunflowers. We also picked up a bag of
kettle corn to share before heading over to the terrace to conclude our
day on the square by having a drink with our friend's Alex and Cassie.
It was their sixth anniversary on Saturday, and we were pretty honored
they were spending time with us. Being long time Madison locals, we've
grown to trust their perspective on Madison, and it was a relief to hear
them validate our frustrations with the over-crowding at the weekend
farmer's market.

After catching the bus home, Rodney, Marissa and I took a long nap,
waking up some time around 6:30. I was loosely committed to cooking
something for dinner, but that ship had sailed, and we decided to walk
to Ian's pizza. We had been out and about all day, but the dogs would
appreciate the exercise, and they get plenty of attention when we walk
to the new location in our neighborhood.

This morning, I'm pleased to say we made it to church. We've had a bit
of a dry spell, but with the help of bacon, hot coffee, and me
weaponizing our toddler into the most persistent alarm clock ever
devised, we made it to the early summer service.

So that's been the weekend thus far. In a few moments, I'll go get
started on making ricotta basil gnocchi. This is another suspenseful
redemption recipe. I tried Gordon Ramsay's potato gnocchi a few months
ago, and it resulted in such a spectacular, sopping, burnt failure that
we ordered Domino's. This evening, I place my trust in Chef John, who
discloses a egg, cheese, and flour based gnocchi that promises to be a
lot less complicated. We're also turning our farmer's market haul into a
simple raw kale salad, so even if the gnocchi doesn't turn out, at least
I've finally earned my "Madison Farmer's Market Hippie" badge eh?

Hope you all have a great weekend.

