---
title: groceries, bears, and pizza
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Monday. I'm feeling very rested this
morning. Marissa and I went to bed at a pretty decent time, and on top
of that, I spent most of this weekend on the couch. As a result, I'm
looking forward to getting back to work this morning.

Yesterday was pretty much a repeat of Saturday. We all slept in, I
cooked breakfast, then Rodney and I walked to the grocery store to pick
up dinner. Since there was a Bears game that day, we both wore our
hoodies. A few cars honked at us walking along Atwood. I'd like to think
it was a friendly honk. We only needed a few things at the store, so we
were in and out of there pretty quick. We walked briskly down the bike
path, trying to make it in time for kick-off. We were stopped by a small
baby that wanted to see Rodney's car stroller. "Nice ride!" the mom
yelled. "Yeah, there's not too many days left where we can take out the
convertible," I joked. I didn't come up with that one on the spot,
that's just my go-to. Standing around other parents while our kids
interact can get awkward, and that's no time to try out *new* jokes.

We got home just a few minutes after kick-off. I turned the game on the
TV and grabbed a beer out of the fridge. Rodney dumped his lego's on the
ground in front of the TV. Marissa was on her way out of the house with
the dogs. "Good luck, Ziggy," we yelled as the door closed behind her.

Yesterday's game was pretty rough. Our offense still wasn't clicking,
and even though we had several drives into the red zone it felt like we
still just couldn't score. And Eddie Pineiro missed a game winning field
goal. That one really hurt to watch. I guess as a kicker, game winning
situations don't find you very often, and perhaps after he won the game
for us in Denver I may have had him on a bit of a pedestal, but part of
me is glad he missed that kick, because we didn't deserve a win. Marissa
and I watched some post game interviews when she got home. Normally I
just blow right past those, but Nagy made a lot of calls that were under
fire, and it made for an interesting Q&A time. He even got a little
heated. Nagy was mostly getting blasted for taking a knee with almost a
minute to go, leaving it up to Eddie (instead of running one more play
and getting closer to the goal line).. I hate to say it, but he made the
right call. You can knock him all you want for not having any faith in
our offense, but I didn't have any faith in them either, and the ball
was spotted well within Eddie's scoring range.

Last night as we were eating dinner, we got into an 'argument' with
Rodney over what animal was on his Bears hoodie. "Tiger," he stated,
pointing at the orange Bears logo. "What animal is that?" Marissa
questioned. "Tiger," replied Rodney. I decided to take a crack at it.

"Hey dude, what game did we watch today?" I asked. "Bears game," Rodney
said. "And you're wearing your Bears hoodie, right?" Rodney nodded.
"Bears hoodie."

"What animal is that?" I asked. "Tiger," replied Rodney. "Well, tigers
are usually orange," Marissa added.

After dinner, Marissa put Rodney to bed and I cleaned up after dinner.
We made deep dish pizza, and packing deep dish leftovers is always kind
of a riddle, and I have yet to solve it. The best I've come up with is
cutting individual slices after it's cooled, arranging the slices
opposite and adjacent to each other forming a parallelogram, then
wrapping the whole mess in a glob of foil. I try to even crimp the foil
around the crust so the pizza keeps its shape, then slip the whole mess
into a plastic bag. It works, but I'm always a little ashamed keeping my
wad of plastic and tinfoil in the fridge at work when there is so much
pressure around recycling and keeping a small waste footprint.

On a high note with regards to storing deep dish leftovers, I invented a
new way to cut the pizza. I used to saw the slices, which would crack
the delicate crust and sometimes even snap it off, but last night I got
my biggest, sharpest knife, put the pizza in the middle of the cutting
board, and chopped it in a swift motion. The slice separated cleaning,
crust in tact. "Somebody's you just gotta 'fruit ninja' it," I laughed.

Marissa and I finished watching *Living with Yourself*, then we tidied
up the house for an hour or so. We finished the night by watching my
movie pick *Back to School*. It's part of the series of movies I've
found that were filmed in Madison. We're only about a third into it, but
this light-hearted Rodney Dangerfield comedy is hitting the spot. In the
movie, UW Madison is renamed "Great Lakes College".

That's my time. I have to head outside and catch a bus. Hope you have a
great Monday, and don't forget that Halloween is coming up this week!

