---
title: wet christmas trees, frozen 2, and tiny metal hooks
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! And happy December! It's always exciting to roll
into another month, isn't it? Visually, seeing 'December' on the
calendar is a little terrifying, as now I'm starting to think of
everything I need to get done in the month of December. Christmas
shopping, Secret Santa contests, end of the year writing - this month it
all piles up.

It's gallery day, and we're up a little earlier than normal to get
ready. Certainly no time for a pancake party this morning. Today we have
to pack the car and set up everything at the Goodman Community Center by
ten. Also, sometime today I have to pack Rodney for a little trip to
Grandma & Grandpa's house. Today, he's going home with my parents, and
we'll pick him up again when we see them this weekend. So this morning,
I'm looking to quickly crank out a journal entry before the business and
general running around begins.

I think this will be a weird week. I have off work this Thursday and
Friday for the Bears game & our Chicago gallery prep and Rodney will be
away. And while it sounds like an opportunity to *wild out*, I'll
probably just use the extra time in the evening this week to clean my
closet or get ahead of December to-dos. Maybe I'll briefly pick back up
the nesting power hour, which I had to take a break from.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. We started the day slow, eating
pancakes and sitting around the dining room table talking about the
weekend. I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa got ready for her gallery.
After cleaning up from breakfast, I purchased three movie tickets for
Frozen 2 at our favorite theater.

We had plenty of time before we needed to get to the theater, so we used
it to go buy a Christmas tree at Hy-Vee. Admittedly, we rushed our
decision a bit. It was cold and drizzling, and after all the hype around
letting Rodney make the ultimate decision of which tree we'd take home,
he was only interested in jumping in the puddles collecting in the
parking lot. "Rodney, touch this tree," I said, gesturing at me and
Marissa's choice Frasier. Rodney hesitantly patted the tree. "Look! He
made his choice, he wants this one," I joked.

After buying the tree, the guy made quick work of wrapping it in
plastic, hoisting it up to the roof of our car, and tying it through our
open doors. We made our way home, and with great effort we carried it
inside. The rain worried us a bit - we didn't want to set up the wet
Christmas tree in our living room only to have it drip rainwater all
over the place, but amazingly the tree was already bone dry. I guess
with the thousands of little pine needles and oily sap, they're already
designed to be water resistant.

We put Rodney down for a nap, and I flopped on the couch and caught up
on YouTube videos until a little after five. It was time to make our way
to the movie. We jumped in the car and made our way to the theater. We
got there about an hour early so we could find a seat at the bar and eat
some dinner before heading in. Marissa and I ordered the boneless wings,
which were only five bucks, since the Badgers were playing the Gophers
in college football. The game was already in the final minutes of the
fourth quarter. Families sitting in the dining room were glued to the
big projector playing the game. In the last minutes of that game, I
learned a lot about the college football rivalry between Minnesota and
Wisconsin. When the game was over, the Badgers rushed the field and
seized a giant wooden axe leaned up against the goalpost. "Paul Bunyan's
Axe" traditionally goes home with whoever wins this game, which always
takes place the Saturday after Thanksgiving.

Watching the game with Marissa, we chatted about college football. This
year, following professional football much more closely, we have a
refreshed perspective. "I think I'm starting to get why it's so
exciting," I pondered. "The players make more mistakes, and the plays
are bigger. It's like everything ends in a diving catch or an eighty
yard run." Marissa nodded. "It's more youthful, too. It feels like the
players have more energy."

It came time for us to pay the bill and find our seats to see Frozen 2.
Rodney stood in line with Marissa to buy some popcorn while I ran back
to the car to see if we remembered to bring an extra diaper. We ended up
making it through the evening without needing one, but it's good to be
cautious.

About fifteen minutes into Frozen 2, Marissa and I looked at each other,
giving each other the *this movie is going to be terrible, isn't it*
eyes. And it was. Frozen 2 was grotesquely bad. None of the songs were
catchy, and everything about the movie required so much extra context
and explanation, I felt like I was watching Star Trek. I don't want to
spoil anything, so I'll leave it at that. Maybe just lower your
expectations a bit.

There were also a lot of callbacks to the first Frozen - which is never
a good sign, isn't it? Like the movie was begging us for our enjoyment -
*remember that movie you liked? That's us! We made that movie. So you
like this one too, right*? So it pleases me to say that Frozen 2 was,
indeed, an *avalanche of half-formed ideas*.

My 'moment of zen' during Frozen 2 had to be when Marissa got up to use
the bathroom, and it was just me and Rodney in the big recliners. Frozen
2 was in the middle of introducing some kind of tiny lizard character,
as if they didn't have enough marketable characters already. Elsa broke
out into song, and Rodney reach up to my mouth and casually popped a wet
sweet tart in between my teeth. "HERE YOU GO," he said loudly enough for
the whole theater to hear over Elsa singing.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I watched TV while working on
paintings. Marissa taught me how to screw the hanging hooks into the
wood frames and tie them together with a thin piece of wire. It took me
about twenty minutes to finish the first one, and eventually I gave up
on twisting the tiny metal hooks and stuck to just tying wire. There's
so much mastery in her process, even in the small things that follow
making the actual painting. It baffles me how she's able to apply enough
force to that small metal hook to twist it through the wood in a single
fluid motion. The process that took me ten minutes at my best took her
about 45 seconds in a casual demonstration. "It's ok," Marissa assured
me. "I've had a lot of practice. I get blisters from this, you know."

So that's what I got today. Today, a new month - tomorrow, a new week. A
half week, anyway. Hope you all have a great day today.

