---
title: coffee, football, code, and tacos
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! It's yet another cozy, drizzly day here in
beautiful Madison Wisconsin. This morning's coffee turned out a little
better. I thought I had ground the beans a little too finely, but I like
the extra kick this morning. Still eagerly waiting for the new coffee
machine to get here in the mail, this french press requires way too many
decisions in the morning. At this point, I'm kicking myself for not just
buying it at target. I'm not sure why ordering it on Amazon felt
convenient or more timely. Amazon is great for things that you
eventually need - like socks, shoes, and surge protectors. But I should
have anticipated how annoying waiting around for a coffee maker would
be. *I really of think \[I\] [screwed the pooch] on this one.*

Yesterday was a pretty good day. Work was pretty busy, but I made it
through my checklist and even had time over lunch for some side
missions. Lately I do this thing where alongside my work todo list, I
make a list of personal things I'd like to get done over my lunch.
Yesterday I emailed a friend, then as silly as it sounds I read up on
the Bears' Quarterback Mitch Trubisky. I'm really trying to take
football seriously, so each day I'm going to try to bring myself up to
speed with something, and with football the QB is probably the best
place to start. I didn't realize that Mitch Trubisky was such a new part
of the team. We only drafted him in 2017, but according to Wikipedia he
really started clicking in last season. The bears made it pretty far
into the playoffs, then were eliminated with a heart-breaking missed
field goal. I definitely remember that. Marissa and I watched the entire
game. We thought the Bears were on their way to the super bowl, so we
wanted to jump on the fair weather fan train earlier in the playoffs to
make the final more exciting. As a result, we witnessed every painful
moment of that last field goal attempt. During that game, I guess I was
too preoccupied with the kick to notice how well Mitch played. He's a
solid QB, and I'm happy to have him on our side. I'm looking forward to
the game this Sunday. It's right in the middle of Rodney's naptime, and
football games are a great excuse to hang around the house and cook
something a little on the junkfood side. I'm thinking about making some
nachos or buffalo wings for the occasion. Today, during my lunch I'm
going to read up on our head coach Matt Nagy. I'll peruse his Wikipedia
page, then pull on a few internet threads from there.

After work yesterday, I made that asparagus & bacon dutch baby with a
side of mushrooms. It was a pretty easy recipe, so Marissa hung out in
the kitchen while I worked. It was nice to catch up after a long work
day. She had a pretty busy day schlepping paintings up to Minnesota.

The dinner turned out great. It was kind of like a cross between a
quiche and a country omelette, but you can't go wrong with crusty
cheese, egg, and bacon in cast iron, so that's no surprise.

We put Rodney to bed, then Marissa and I began our quiet hobby night.
She painted, and I worked the whole night on *the hub*. I was hoping to
finish up the chores tracker, but I decided to rewrite the whole site
from scratch and I just about broke even. It was for the better though,
I was over-complicating things and I'm much happier with it now. I'd
rather not bore you with the details.

So looking forward, I think we just have a regular Tuesday on our hands.
I don't have any leftovers today, so I might indulge in some tacos.
Belair has a great \$2 beer & taco special on Tuesday, so you can get a
pretty solid lunch and beer for only a couple bucks.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today. Eat tacos and get your work
done.

  [screwed the pooch]: https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/163ecd4b-0182-4c79-b3b8-9e4f810ca139#BJYeObfSLr.copy

