---
title: wedding 2
---

Dear Journal,

Good afternoon everyone! Sorry the entry is a little late today. Last
night my little sister got married, and this morning I had a choice:
write a short journal entry with a terrible hangover, or wait a few
hours and write a thoughtful entry with a slightly less terrible
hangover. I went with the latter. Our family just got home a little over
an hour ago. We left everything in the car and proceeded to eat
Culver's, sleep, and catch up on our long snuggle backlog with Ollie and
Zig Zig.

Yesterday morning, my dad treated Rodney and I to breakfast at a nearby
diner. I ordered Rod the Mickey Mouse pancakes off the kids menu, but
you have to wonder if he was jealous of my Philly cheese steak skillet.
After breakfast, we returned to my parents house. As we were walking
through the garage, Rodney acknowledged my dad's small green mini
motorcycle, and after very little convincing, got Grandpa to start the
engine and coast up the driveway while carrying him on his lap. After
some more fiddling in the driveway, we headed inside.

Marissa and my mom had already left to go have lunch at the Oster house,
and having plenty of time before we needed to join the rest of the
wedding, the three of us guys just hung around the house. I knew Rod was
going to have a trying day wearing a suit, sitting through a ceremony,
and staying up late, so I did my best to let him decide how we spent the
time. I drank a beer as Rod and I lazily kicked a soccer ball around the
backyard. There's a golf course in their backyard, and it was actually
pretty entertaining to watch the different types of athletes that would
play through. After Rodney had enough, we made our way inside and
quietly watched TV.

Finally the time came, and we needed to get ready for the wedding. It's
a lot of pressure getting a kid ready for big events alone, not having
your spouse around to check your work and validate everything. I gave
Rodney a rinse in the shower, put on his suit, and packed my backpack
with everything that could possibly interest and comfort a three year
old throughout an all day wedding. I was relieved that Rodney didn't
mind the suit. After suffering through so many pre-church meltdowns, I
had assumed that anything that wasn't a t-shirt was worthy of a fit. But
mysteriously, Rodney was fine with the button down dress shirt, vest,
and a clip on tie. He may have even enjoyed feeling dapper for a change.

We drove to the church, my dad navigating the chaotic twists and turns
of Geneva, me reviewing the itinerary on my phone, and Rodney babbling
about things he could see out the window. As we got closer to College
church, we could see the bridesmaids in their blue dresses shuffling
around on the Wheaton College lawn, posing for pictures. We parked, and
Rodney and I spent some time wandering around the church while my dad
set up his guitar. I was wearing my suit, but I still needed to track
down one of the groomsmen for my tie. I felt a little strange walking
around in a crisp blue suit with my dress shirt casually unbuttoned,
like a magician killing time before a private show.

We met up with Marissa, and after I finished getting dressed, we decided
to use up the last half hour to go for a little walk around our old
campus. Marissa and I were both surprised at how natural it felt to be
back at Wheaton, and luckily it was homecoming weekend, so we didn't
look very out of place wandering around with a toddler. For a moment, as
we were walking the steps down from the cafeteria into the student
center, it felt like we were college kids lazily checking our mailboxes,
wandering around campus, and killing time before evening plans. Wheaton
College is one of the only places on earth where I knew Marissa before
she my wife. I forget that she used to just be my girlfriend. Walking
around campus with her took me to a time where the only thing I knew
about her was that she was pretty, and that she agreed to date me.

We made our way back to the church. The doors would be opening in a few
minutes, and I had to take my position as one of the ushers. As I stood
by the door and waited, I did my best to mentally prepare to be very
friendly and outgoing. From every other introvert I've talked to, I
think we all have this common phobia sticky social situations, like
calling someone by the wrong name, not recognizing someone that that
you've known for a really long time, or mistaking someone's gender. I
mean, everybody hates those moments, but I think introverts are extra
sensitive, lacking the social finesse to slip out of them. Our only
defense mechanism is preparation. In my head, a ran through names,
reviewed the seating, and silently rehearsed my wording.

Before the wedding started, I saw my little sister Sarah. She was play
fighting with Rodney, who brought a light up Styrofoam sword. She looked
beautiful. You can only talk about your sister's wedding for so long
before you need to fall onto a clich√©, but let's just say that the
version of Sarah that exists in my childhood memories - playing video
games and making goofy home videos - compared to the version of Sarah
that was waiting in that church - beautiful, talented, funny, and
thoughtful - was a powerful contrast that makes me weepy-eyed just
thinking about it.

The doors opened, and the gentle violin music was soon drowned out by
people gathering in the foyer. Ian and I sat everyone on time, and out
of all the people I hugged and greeted, I only had one forgiveable *faux
pax*. When my parents' friend and finance guy arrived, I didn't
recognize him and asked *bride or groom?*, and from the puzzled look on
his face I suddenly got the sense that I should have already known the
answer. Moments earlier, I had convinced myself that playing it off like
sarcasm, as if I was just asking to be funny, was a good back up plan.
It was not a good backup plan. Nate graciously reminded me that we've
met a few times, and he admitted he only partially recognized me. What a
class act, huh?

Once the ceremony began, my final wedding task was to make sure Rodney
made it down the aisle. I wasn't sure how he'd do. Sometimes Rodney
likes attention, and other times he detests it. Luckily, on Sarah's
wedding day he liked it. As we walked after his flower girl cousin, he
gingerly waved to the crowd and smirked.

The rest of the ceremony was beautiful. Sadly, I don't have any word
pictures for you. I confess that I spent most of the time trying to keep
Rodney from losing his mind. Rodney, Alice, and Frankie sat in a row
together with me and Jeremy on the outside, and I think we did an
admirable job containing the chaos of crumbling graham crackers, toy
sharing disputes, and crayons rolling on the floor. I laughed with
Jeremy later about how everything that happens while you're watching a
toddler feels like an anxious blur.

After the ceremony, Marissa and I made our way to the car and sat in the
parking lot for a few minutes. Rod was getting burnt out, and we wanted
him to fall asleep so he'd have enough energy to get through dinner. He
ended up having plenty of time to sleep. It took me a little over a hour
to make the twenty minute drive. Even though I grew up and learned to
drive in Chicago, apparently I'm still not savvy enough to improvise
around its closed roads, construction, and rush hour traffic. I pulled
up the front door, letting Marissa run into the country club barefoot
just in time to begin the reception.

Rodney struggled through the first half of the reception. The plan was
to keep him there until midnight and hope he'd fall asleep in the
corner, but after falling out of his booster seat and being too scared
to dance, Marissa made the call to take him home early. She told me
later that that he was visibly relieved to be driving home with mom in
his pajamas, and he fell asleep immediately. I stayed behind. I had so
much fun catching up with people from my past life, especially now that
I was treated more like a peer. One thing I've noticed about my late
twenties is that adults finally start to treat you like one of their
own. Or maybe it's because when you hang out with someone you haven't
seen in years, you have no choice but to just start over and get to know
each other again from scratch. While I was catching up with a friend
that used to be a church junior high leader of mine, she was telling
Marissa about the first time I went to summer camp as a freshman to help
out with junior high. I stepped off the bus and greeted her *Hello,
colleague*, as if the teacher/student relationship we had was completely
turned on its head now that I wasn't attending camp as a student.
Weirdly enough, that smart-ass comment I made in high school was truer
now than ever. Friends' parents, parents' friends, and former church
leaders alike were all my *colleagues* now.

Sarah was whisked off to Hawaii by my gallant new brother in-law, and
the night that followed is a blurry tale of dancing, tequila, cigars,
and late night white castle. Looking back on the weekend, social *faux
paxs*, exhausted toddlers, and piercing hangovers are such a small part
of Sarah's big day. I have remind myself to step back and appreciate
what this day meant for my little sister. Sarah, your wedding was
beautiful and I'm so happy for you. Phillip, welcome to the family. To
the both of you, remember as much as you can - because time is relative,
and it moves fast when your heart is full.

As for me, I have a car to unpack and probably three loads of laundry to
do. Later we'll order a pizza, but I'll lay off the tequila this
evening. For some reason that doesn't sound good to me right now. Thanks
for reading, colleagues. I'll see you at the next wedding.

