---
title: sleeping, kanye, bowling and blankets
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. It's a beautiful, brisk Saturday morning. I just
ran out to get some coffee, and after setting up Rodney with some Blippi
I decided to knock out my journal entry before making some breakfast.

All week Marissa and I have been staying up a little late all this week,
and those missing 30 or 60 minutes of sleep catch up with you. Last
night before drifting off to sleep, I deleted my Saturday alarm. That's
the mood this morning.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. For work lunch, we went out for
sushi, and upon returning I found out Kanye finally dropped his new
album. Beaming, I grabbed my laptop and found a quiet place for my first
listen. I love when Kanye releases new albums. They take an entire
weekend to listen to. To use a tired analogy, Kanye albums are like a
bottle of wine. They change over time, and you have to let them breath
before you form any final opinions. And the hardest thing of all is how
quickly he moves and changes directions. Kanye is the kind of artist
that makes you sprint after him. Usually, by the time you've fully come
to appreciate an album, he's already changed directions for the next
one.

I should have known better, but I had low expectations hearing he'd be
*christianizing* the lyrics. I regularly listened to the Yanhdi bootleg,
and really grew to love some of these tracks in their raw, *less godly*
state, and when the lyrics finally made it to the Internet I remember
looking at them with Marissa in horror. My imagination fell short in
trying to imagine lyrics like *put the 'gram away, hold hands an pray*
in a quality hip hop album.

But for twenty-seven minutes yesterday I couldn't stop smiling. It's an
absolute mess, and utterly confusing, but it has everything. Following
discussion on reddit and twitter, it's getting a lot of hate, but
honestly that just makes the album more fun. People hate every new Kanye
album, but a few months from now I have confidence that it will be
touted as another classic.

I came home from work to Marissa taking a well-deserved nap on the
couch, and Rodney sleeping in his room upstairs. Marissa's phone was
blowing up from Instagram comments and messages - sometimes I'm amazed
she can sleep through that. If I had half as many followers as her, I'd
need to take the battery out of my phone before taking a nap. I put
*Jesus Is King* on our tv and unapologetically blasted it. Marissa
stirred, and smiled.

"IT'S TIME TO GO BOWLING," I announced. Yesterday night was the official
Astuary Art float frame release bowling & pizza party. I put it on our
family calendar a week ago, and we've been hyping it for a few days.
Rodney ran down the stairs in excitement.

We put the dogs away and jumped in the car, heading just a few miles
east of our house to *Dream Lanes*. We rented a lane, and for collateral
they took one shoe from each of us to store in the back. Have you ever
heard of a bowling alley taking precautions against bowling shoe theft?
I just assumed that the bowling shoe itself would be enough of a
deterrent. How much money could you get from a stolen bowling shoe? I
bet Goodwill would even have a hard time accepting that.

*Dream Lanes* was a real bowling alley. Earlier at work, I was asking
about it over lunch, and one coworker of mine who used to bowl in a
league gave me the rundown. "It's perfect," he said. "Kind of rundown,
just a touch of sadness, but you kind of want that in a bowling alley,
right?" he laughed. "Get the pig wings. Don't try to figure them out,
just order them."

I bought a beer while Marissa and Rod put in an order for pizza and pig
wings. Our lane lit up, and somebody from the counter brought out a
small ball and a metal ramp for Rodney. We played two games,
intermittently stopping to snack on pizza. I teased Marissa because she
kept bowling gutterballs and was convinced that she just hadn't found
the right ball. By the time we were into the second game, we had
accumulate seven of them. The only real competition was between me and
Rodney. Even though Rodney had a metal ramp to roll the ball, his ball
was rough and seemed to hook in a random direction, so we were just
about even. I eeked ahead in the end.

And the big wings *were* delicious. I couldn't figure them out - it was
like someone made braised ribs, took them off the bone, then figured out
how to re attach them to tiny PVC pipes. "They don't look natural,"
laughed Marissa. "But they don't need to, they're strange and perfect" I
added. Perfectly strange, just like Kanye's *Jesus Is King*.

We bowled through the toddler witching hour, then head home to put
Rodney down to bed. Marissa conducted his bedtime routine upstairs while
I started editing together a video for her paintings. After the video
was done, we met on the couch to watch Indiana Jones. "I want to make a
cocoon of blankets," she announced as the dogs eagerly joined us on the
couch.

Today, Marissa has an agility trial, and while she has the car, the Rod
man and I are going to hold down the fort at home. We have a big grocery
trip today, and at some point I need to deal with the thawing salmon
filet in my fridge that I bought on a whim.

This weekend, here's to relaxing, grocery shopping, smoking fish, and
listening to new music. There are a few productive things we can do
around the house, but it won't be the end of the world if those don't
get done. Hope you have a wonderful and restful weekend. I'm going to go
cook some eggs, then try to get Rodney to wake up Mom with his recorder.

