---
title: driving, rest, and email
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a day of driving. Sometime around the third or fourth
hour, all of us started showing cracks in our composure. Our icecream
had run out. We hit weekend Dells traffic. The car started to feel
stuffy and sticky, and none of us felt like talking. But we made it
home, and it felt so good to come into the house, close the door, and
take a hot shower. Marissa climbed back into the car to go pick up the
dogs, while Rodney and I stayed behind and tried to fit an entire
weekend of R&R into just a few hours, and it felt like we got pretty
close.

We got home a little later than we thought we would, and even though the
plan was to talk to the market to pick up some food, it felt cruel to
take Rodney on a long walk outside. He was settled in on the couch
watching spider-man. So instead of running errands, we just ordered a
pizza. I joined him on the couch and flipped through some comic books I
loaned him from my shelf. He's way off from being able to understand
them, but he likes looking at the pictures and trying to find cool
Spider-Man poses.

Marissa got home with the dogs around 8:45. "The drive was fine - there
was traffic, but I only screamed twice and cried once," she laughed.
After letting Rodney play with the dogs for a few minutes, I put him to
bed. Marissa and I ate some sliced up gouda on the couch and caught up
on YouTube videos.

Aside from a stiff neck from tubing and a touch of sunburn on my legs,
I'm feeling pretty good this morning. I'm ready to attack a new week.
And this week is going to be a doozy. We're pressing on with our intern
project at work, and this week will likely be fraught with blockers and
last minute fixes. I'm also hoping to get started on my next computer
build. I'm going to take apart the downstairs computer and mount the
parts to Plexiglas in my room, so this week I hope to at least open it
up to see what we're dealing with. I've also been chipping away at a
side project that's still in pretty good shape. I'm glad I had the
foresight to catch up on emails last Thursday before we left for
Hayward.

Speaking of which, did you know that I still get emails? That might be
the best part of this blog. I used to provide a section under each
article for comments, but I've accidentally found that when you omit the
comments, people reach out to you in other ways, and it's a lot more
personal and substantive. Some weeks, I'll have a real, personal email
thread ongoing between four or five people. It gives me a lot of joy.
And if you're out there and you've been reading these updates, drop me a
line and say hello! I'm still at <alex@reckerfamily.com>.

Time to get going. I really need to shave - at some point over the
weekend my rugged beard became a negligent beard. Let's have a Monday.
And just in case you're not all the way rested up from this weekend,
take an hour today to just sit and eat some gouda.

