---
title: staycations, bars, toothless santas, and mixtapes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! I'd like to congratulate you on making it to
Friday. We've got a nice chilly weekend coming up, and as for me, I have
the week off yesterday, so I'm feeling especially relaxed. I'm looking
forward to it. The last time I took an extended amount of time off work
was probably when my wife and I went to Vancouver. So some R&R is long
overdue.

Next week is really more of a *staycation*. We're going to eventually
head up to Minnesota to spend Thanksgiving with Marissa's family, but in
the days leading up to it, we plan on just hanging around the house. I
have a practice turkey to cook, and it would be nice to catch up on some
half-finished IT projects that have been festering in our home network.
But worst case scenario, I don't end up with as much time as I thought I
would, and the half built computer case and sprawling mess of cables
will just have to wait until Christmas.

This weekend, Grandpa Wilke is also visiting. He'll get in late Saturday
night. He doesn't know it yet, but that's around the time I hope to have
our practice turkey finished, so needless to say if he's still hungry
after rolling off of the plan at night, he'll have an entire smoked
turkey to pick at.

*Sip*. I've got my Thanksgiving week staycation on the brain, but
yesterday was a pretty good day in its own rite. My team wanted to set
aside some whiteboarding time to think through something we're building,
and my boss suggested we do it over lunch. We went to Cooper's, but it
was too busy to find a table, so we had to sit at the bar. As we huddled
into the crowded bar stools, beers in hand, we let loose with the
teasing. "Oh yeah," I remarked scanning the room. "We're definitely
going to get a lot done in here. This is the perfect place to design
software." I teased. And so our software planning turned into just a
regular lunch, which was fine too. We still had the afternoon to throw
some time at it.

After work, I took the bus home, and soon Marissa, Rodney, and I were
back in the car to run some errands. We needed to swing by Home Depot to
pick up some turkey smoking supplies - charcoal, applewood, and two 5
gallon bucks for the overnight brining. But we started the evening off
at Portillo's. As we ordered, the cashier handed Rodney a sheet of
stickers, and he quickly got busy attaching them to each of us. I got a
sticker that said *Shake it Up!* on my inner thigh. How scandalous,
right?

After wolfing down some Portillo's, we jumped back in the car and made
our way to Home Depot. We spent some time milling around and enjoying
the Christmas decorations. It was a much more welcoming scene than Home
Depot's Halloween decorations. Rodney was especially grateful to see
them packed away for the season. But they still managed to get at least
one creepy decoration in. Standing in front of the row of Christmas
trees was a six foot tall realistic Santa statue. I stood close to the
figure and made eye contact, taking a moment to appreciate the
creepiness of his features, especially his lifeless eyes. "It gets
worse," Marissa muttered as she sauntered over and hit a button on his
coat. Music played, and the Santa's arms began to stir. Suddenly he
began to sing, slowly blinking and mouthing the words with dead lips and
dry cloth tongue resting lifelessly in his toothless rubber mouth. It
was probably the worst thing I've seen all year.

We spent the rest of the early evening driving around Sun Prairie,
dropping off fliers for Marissa's upcoming art gallery in different
coffee shops. We only head out to Sun Prairie when we go to the movie
theater, so it was fun getting to know the town a little better. "Sun
Prairie kind of feels like a miniature Greenbay bolted onto the back of
Madison," I remarked.

We finally made our way home, and we went upstairs to put Rodney to bed.
He still had some energy, so as he polished off the rest of his sippie
cup of milk, I let him play with some of my IT toys. I dumped out a bag
of HDMI cables and random networking equipment. He picked up an orange
tool that looked kind of like an mini cattle prod. "DADA WASS THIS?"
asked Rodney. "You know what, I'm not sure dude," I admitted. "But just
in case it's dangerousâ€¦ I don't know, you can look at it, but just be
ready for anything." Marissa laughed to herself in the corner.

Rodney and I said 'goodnight' to the cables, then retreated into his
room for bed. Marissa spent the rest of the night working, and I made my
way to the couch to tool around with some home project software. I was
trying to deploy jenkins on my new kubernetes cluster, but - shocker -
it was not straight forward and I had to throw in the towel around 11.
Marissa joined me on the couch as I was packing my computer away, and we
ended the night by watching Chance the Rapper's hot ones episode. I had
read online that he didn't finish all ten wings of death, so I was
expecting DJ Khaled levels of hubris (that may only make sense if you
watch the show). But I actually felt bad for the guy. He made it clear
from the beginning that he hated spicy food, and all things considered
he handled the heat admirably. And even though I wasn't a fan of the
music Chance put out this year, I always appreciate hearing what he was
to say. Chance is also really great at describing how other rapper's
work, which Sean Evens deftly questioned. I liked Chance recapping what
a Lil' Wayne collaboration is like, where he "just stands behind you,
not swaying or anything, just standing still in the corner, then
suddenly he leaves, tells the sound guy to cut the music, then records
his part with no music in the other room."

Speaking of music, it's almost time for the - *drum roll* - Alex Recker
best of 2019 hip hop mixtape. December is right around the corner, and
since I'm still committed to burning and labeling the CD's by hand, I
had better get a jump on them soon. I have some good ideas this year,
stay tuned.

Oh, and if we have any readers from Instagram, welcome! I've started
posting journal entry titles on Instagram - that was a tip from my wife,
and it was exciting to get a miniature surge of fresh Internet traffic.
Of course, I also love the regular traffic too. I'm humbled, and
likewise honored by the regular readership.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. It's Friday, go get 'em. Do it
for the weekend. Do it for Thanksgiving!

