---
title: replacement coffee makers, target groceries, and kanye conspiracies
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! It's a beautiful day today. If you're not lucky
to be off work today, then I at least hope everyone is being nice to you
today. This morning we had another late start to the day. I cooked
breakfast then bothered Marissa and Rodney until they reluctantly rolled
out of bed to join me at the table. We finally brought home our
replacement coffee maker, and I think having hot drip coffee back in the
morning is having an energizing effect on me. Don't get me wrong - Moka
is good stuff. But sleepily calling ahead for a brew box and driving
across East wash in my bathrobe is a weird start to the day, so I'm
happy to put that behind me.

This morning, we're rocking the 12 cup Black and Dekker drip coffee
machine. Sleek, shiny black plastic, a programmable LED clock, and
"steal a cup feature" all at an affordable 19.99. And yes, I'm going to
hand wash the carafe from now on. These days I feel like we replace our
coffee maker so often, it kind of feels the trope of Strongbad breaking
his retro, outdated computers and replacing them with slightly less
outdated computers. If our last Hamilton Beach machine was the Lappy
486, that would mean we're now on the *Compé*. I wasn't sure just then
which computer came after the Lappy, but one of the reasons I love the
homstar runner fan base is that everything about the website is
carefully documented in a wiki, which I consulted to make sure that
analogy landed accurately.

This morning, we've got turkey at the top of mind. Marissa and I formed
a game plan at the breakfast table this morning. Later today, I'm going
to cook up a double batch of brine and keep it in one of our 5 gallon
buckets. Tomorrow morning, we're going to put a frozen turkey in the
other and pad it with ice, and we're going to use our cooler to
transport the other. We're going to try to do most of our shopping on
Wednesday afternoon, but today I'm going to pick up some gluten free
buckwheat flour. I have no doubt they'll have it an our faithful Jenny
Street Market, but just in case it's not, there are plenty of other
specialty food shops I can check.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. In the morning, I made a long list of
things to get done, and I sort of chipped away at it all day. Just
before lunch, my dad stopped by to take me out for a beer, but we ended
up just hanging around the house and eating some leftovers. We sat at
the dining room table. I had a beer in my left hand and a cup of coffee
in my right. It was that weird time of day where that was somehow OK. We
chatted and grazed on leftovers until about 1, when Marissa suddenly
remembered we had a doctor's appointment. In a cold sweat, she checked
the calendar and breathed a sigh of relief seeing the appointment wasn't
until 1:30, and it was right across the street at the new clinic. It was
so perfect, it was almost like we planned it that way. We sent my dad on
his way and made our way across the street for Marissa's routine
checkup. After checking baby's heartbeats and getting a quick, expert
blood draw, we made our way back home.

In the evening, we ran some errands at Target, picking up a new coffee
maker and grabbing a some sweet potatoes and buns for dinner. Picking up
groceries at Target is risky business. If you're not careful, you could
wind up spending \$7 on asparagus or something, which almost happened.
Target is a crafty business. Something tells me that the secret to their
success is their ability to hike up the price exclusively on the things
you didn't realize you need. We find ourselves heading to Target because
they have cheap prices on vitamins, paper towels, and Tupperware, but
the *oh, while we're here we might as well get* mind-set is dangerous.
Beneath the surface appearance of affordability and convenience lie \$4
butter, \$7 asparagus, and \$5 cheese slices waiting to bamboozle poor,
unsuspecting yuppies.

We made our way home. I started preparing dinner as Marissa straightened
up the house. Having passed on the \$7 plastic wrapped asparagus, I had
to work with a single can of green beans left over from Ollie's summer
diet. But after some lemon, butter, a diced shallot, and some dried
mint, they didn't taste half bad. We finished off the plate with some
leftover turkey smashed on Hawaiian buns, spread with some hot mustard
and mashes sweet potatoes. Oh, and there was some sliced swiss on there
too. It turns out we had to get those from Target after all.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed and after a quick nap on the couch
with Ziggy, I got back to my to-do list. I caught up on some emails, one
of which was with a friend from college. We're discussing the latest
Kanye album, and the conversation with him bleed over into a
conversation with my wife while we were milling around the kitchen.

"So if we're still entertaining the idea that Kanye is a secret genius
and *everything* he does is intentional," I explained, "then just maybe
the album roll out was intentionally patterned after the ministry of
Jesus."

Marissa pursed her lips and shook her head. "Wait wait wait," I
protested, trying to hold her attention. "I'm not saying this isn't
blasphemous, but this is Kanye West we're talking about. I'm just saying
- the mysterious listening parties created these droves of internet
commenters *spreading* the good news?" Marissa continued listening,
narrowing her eyes to make it clear I didn't have her yet. "And then he
delayed the album indefinitely!" I continued passionately. "No new due
date either! Almost as if… *it died*." Marissa started shaking her head
again, this time wandering away. Hearing it aloud, I realized this
wasn't my strongest theory - even compared to how terrible these Kanye
conspiracy theories usually are. Back to the drawing board.

So that's what I got today. After lunch, Marissa is going to take Rodney
to agility practice, which will give me a nice change window to take
down the home network and rewrite my server shelf. After that, I have
another long list of things to do, and I had better get started. Hope
you all have a wonderful day, and a happy Thanksgiving's Eve's Eve.

