---
title: cars, tomatoes, movies, and weddings
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Hope you're having a wonderful Thursday morning.
The cold, rainy weather is a great excuse to hid in a pair of headphones
under your favorite hoodie. That's probably what I'd be doing today if I
were at work, but I have the next two days off. We're driving to Chicago
for Auntie Sarah's (and Uncle Phillip's) wedding. In a few moments I'll
wake everyone up, we'll start packing, and we hope to hit the rode by
noon. I love car trips, don't you? Driving in the rain is less than
ideal, but if you bring some good music and good coffee, car trips are a
great time to talk and relax.

Yesterday I worked from home, but I still had a pretty busy day wrapping
up and documenting my week's project. At the end of the day, we had a
little meeting with the whole team where I walked through my notes. In
the end I finally got things working, and I was grateful for that. It's
always better ending a work week on a high note. After work, Rod,
Marissa, and I drove to Hy-Vee to pick up some supplies to make a deep
dish pizza. We got the usual corn meal for the dough, raw Italian
sausage, and marinara, but I also picked up a can of *San Marzano*
tomatoes. Chef John talked about how special these are on his channel,
and the first time I saw them in Hy-Vee I did a double take. I cooked
the red sauce using the whole can, letting it simmer down for almost an
hour and a half. The tomatoes were pretty magical, and absolutely lived
up to their reputation. I've never been too crazy about the way I make
pizza sauce, so this is a pretty big win. Always happy to have another
secret weapon in my back pocket.

While waiting for the pizza to come out the oven, Rod was in a silly
mood. He was "sneaking" around the house with his flashlight,
alternating between me and Marissa. He's peak his head into the room,
then while hunched over with knees bent, he'd take these weird springy
steps into the room leading with his tiny LED flashlight. Then he'd turn
around, head upstairs, and do the same thing to Marissa. He did this at
least three times while the pizza was in the oven.

After eating dinner, we let Rod pack some toys for the trip, then I put
him down for bed. Marissa got to work assembling her new gallery desk,
and I cleaned the kitchen. We had a lot of food in the fridge that was
getting close to expiring, so while cleaning I sliced bananas, baked
some potatoes, and prepared a few more leftovers to eat before hitting
the road.

Ah, speaking of cleaning. I happened upon a great cleaning tip last
night. I've always wondered about the best way to dispose of a really
chunky red sauce - like the one I made last night for the pizza. Last
night it occurred to me to pour the sauce through a strainer, rinsing
with plenty of water. If you keep it under hot water for about five
minutes, soon the entire sauce coalesces into this little puck of tomato
meat and spices, and then you can just flip it into the garbage can like
a pancake. Meanwhile, your drain and drain catcher are completely clean,
since the strainer was doing all the work. I was pretty proud of myself
for coming up with that one.

After cleaning the kitchen, Marissa and I reconvened on the couch to
finish watching Fantastic Mr. Fox. I brought some potato chips and
little bit of hot sauce. It was cold and rainy pretty much all day, and
I it felt good to warm my throat with something spicy.

After we finished Fantastic Mr. Fox, we kept the party rolling and
started watching Blackkklansman, which is one of the first movie picks
we've had which neither of us have seen. We're about half way through,
so far it's a pretty cool & interesting cop movie.

Hope you have a great day today. For some of you, I'll see you at my
sister's wedding. For everyone else, stay dry out there. Be sure to have
your favorite hoodie and your favorite bottle of hot sauce on hand.

