---
title: cops, cars, breakfast, and ribs
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Saturday. This morning, I'm coming to you
from our dining room computer. Lion King is playing on the TV, Marissa
is napping on the couch, and Rodney is burning off all the sugar he ate
for breakfast. It's possible I put just a little too much sugar on his
Dutch baby this morning. But the sugar rush won't last forever, I'm sure
by the end of this entry, he'll be mellowed out.

So last night was pretty action packed. Marissa and I stayed up pretty
late to kick off the holiday weekend, and sometime around two in the
morning we heard a big crash outside. Peering through the window, we saw
somebody had slammed their car into my neighbor's truck, which was
parked on the street in front of his house. The guy staggered out and
looked pretty flustered. He tried to start the car a few times and
dislodge it from the curb, but he ended up just taking all his stuff out
of the car and heading down the street on foot. Marissa called the cops,
who told us they were already looking for a guy who was driving a stolen
car that did a hit and run downtown earlier that night.

Before he fled, I walked down my driveway to try to get a look at his
license plate. To be honest with you, I was planning on confronting him.
My neighbor has had people hit his car and leave before, and we were
pretty peeved it was happening again, and wanted to jump on the
opportunity to finally hold somebody responsible. But from the corner of
my house, I could see that he was taking the license plate off anyway,
then I had second thoughts about getting in his face. Usually, I regret
not confronting people about this kind of thing, but after hearing
everything from the cops, I'm glad I hung back. He could have been
dangerous.

So an eventful Friday night! Marissa stayed up a little later to scope
things out, but went to bed not long after me. We'll be glancing at the
police ticker all day to see if they ended up getting him.

This morning, I channeled all the adrenaline into making breakfast. I
made a pair of Dutch babies, and just for the hell of it, some french
toast. After journaling, I'll probably take Rod to the market to pick up
stuff to make cornbread. Afterwards, I'm smoking a slab of ribs. I have
a good feeling about this batch. The slab is from the Jenny Street
market, and there's a lot of meat between the ribs that looks dark and
marbled.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. Stay sharp out there, and when
in doubt, just make breakfast.

