---
title: outages, soup, music, and hitch
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone, and happy Thursday. The weather has been so
interesting this week in Madison. For the most part, it's been gloomy.
The mornings and evenings are dark, and we've had some rain, but there's
also lots of sun peeking through the clouds, making for some very
dramatic skies. There's lots of angst in the air.

Work continues to get a little dicey. The other day, I compared working
incidents to being on a crack IT fire fighting team, but yesterday it
felt like I started work and the fire department was on fire. We had a
handful of incidents throughout the day. After Marissa got back from dog
practice, our services were still pretty unstable and I was too nervous
to go anywhere for lunch, so we heated up some leftover rigatoni while I
continued working. I still had a beer - that's a staple for Wednesday
lunch.

Outages suck. When we have a bad week, the hardest part is having to set
aside your work routine. I'm used to a weekly rhythm. But when you have
a few incidents in a row, the meetings and rituals you're used to are
replaced with marshal law in which you just have to be ready for
anything. That's made it a challenging week, both technically and
emotionally. I was talking with Marissa on the porch last night, and
coincidently she's had kind of a tough work week too. We've been trying
not to bum each other out, but it felt good to put that aside and have a
good hearty vent session.

After work, I took Rod to the market. Cooking is a great way to channel
work stress, and last night my goal was to funnel all my emotions into
making a big pot of soup. Rod and I picked up two whole cabbages, some
bacon, chicken stock, carrots, onions, Gruy√®re cheese, and a load of
sourdough bread. When we got home, I got to work blanching the cabbage
while Rod peeled some carrots. Everything went into the same pot -
carrots, onions, bacon, and two whole heads of sliced cabbage, filled to
the top with chicken stock. It was good that the lid of my Dutch oven
was so heavy, because everything in the pot needed to be weighed down
and compressed to fit in the pot. The soup simmered for an hour and a
half. I was tempted to open the lid about 30 minutes in, but some good
smells started to fill the kitchen and that was enough proof for me that
Stefan, yet again, was a good bet.

Marissa, Rod, and I ate the soup outside on the porch while the sun went
down. It was a little mild for a weeknight recipe, but I'm still going
to keep this recipe in my back pocket for the next time one of us
catches a cold or has a sensitive stomach. The soft cabbage, tender
bacon, and warm chicken broth was comforting, but the soup never got the
after dinner nap it really deserved.

Since dinner was a little light, we took Rod to go get some ice cream.
We jumped in the car and drove down the street to McDonalds. When we got
home, we let Rod watch an episode of [Stinky & Dirty] while he finished
his ice cream, then Marissa put him to bed.

I had lots of chores to catch up, and since Kids Code starts this week,
I wanted to make Thursday's dinner ahead of time. I fried up a pound of
bacon and made garlic mayo for BLT sandwiches, then cleaned the kitchen.
Marissa sanded frames in the dining room, and we both listened to the
new Taylor Swift album. I wasn't a fan of the album at first, and there
are so many lyrics and little noises she makes that make me roll my
eyes, but last night I'd have to conclude that the thing that saves the
album is the production. Every song - even the ones I can't stand -
sound so good as a finished product.

Chores wrapped up around 10:30. Marissa and I caught up on some YouTube
videos, then we started a movie. Marissa proposed that we try to watch
more movies, even if we have to spread them out over two days, and the
challenge of watching every movie we own appealed to me. Last night, I
used my pick on the movie *Hitch*. That movie has not aged well. The
classic scenes, like Will Smith teaching Kevin James to dance, still
hold up, but the rest of the movie just sounds so bizarre to me now. Ten
years ago, it was a suave, sexy romantic comedy. In high school, I
thought the dialog was pretty smooth. Watching it again, the film is
packed with so many cliches, it almost feels like I'm watching a surreal
Tim & Eric sketch or something.

In a bit, I'm heading into work to fight more fires, armed with leftover
cabbage soup. I have a feeling I'll need the comfort food today. After
work, I'm making some BLTs for the family, then heading over to the
library for our first Kids Code session of the semester.

Hope you all have a wonderful Thursday today. Remember, /Life is not the
amount of breaths you take, it's the moments that take your breath
away./ Quiz time - was that a Taylor Swift lyric or a line from *Hitch*?

  [Stinky & Dirty]: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3952774/

