---
title: locks, hutspot, neighbors, fences, and bladerunner
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Hope you're feeling refreshed this morning. I'm
getting there. Yesterday was great, except I had a twinge in my shoulder
all day. This morning it's still there, but it feels a little better.
Don't you just hate it when that happens? By all accounts, sleeping on
my back with my arms at my side on a travel pillow rolled under my neck
is the ideal way for a human body to lie still for an entire night. I
can't even imagine what went wrong. It's a mystery to me. I still sleep
with arm braces at night to keep my elbow straight. It was really tricky
to figure out how tightly to fasten them. There were a few weeks where
I'd wake up every morning and both of my arms were completely asleep.
And you can't have that.

OK - one more digression before I jump into the day. When I was little,
I used to think that my arms and digits falling asleep was completely
unique to me, and I thought they it an early sign of developing super
powers. I used to watch this show on TV called [The Secret World of Alex
Mack] which was about this teen girl whom, as a result of getting
splashed by chemicals in an accident, could morph into a liquid blob and
shoot electricity out of her finger tips. One morning I remember sitting
up in bed with a tingly arm, and I spent a few minutes holding it out in
front of me trying to summon lightning. There was no lightening. "Must
still be developing," I thought. Morphing into liquid goo was also an
appealing concept to me when I was a child. Between me and my sisters,
locking each other out of our rooms when we were mad was a big power
play. The locks had a spring inside that could be opened with a little
pin that we kept in the bathroom closet, but you could still keep the
lock flush with the doorknob on the other side of the door to keep that
from working. Ah, but if I could morph into liquid, I could just seep
underneath the crack in the door and re-associate as a solid on the
other side. The ultimate trump card.

Back to our regularly scheduled journal entry. Yesterday was a swell
day. I'm on ticket duty this week, so I spent a lot of time bouncing
between things and helping people. Over lunch, I ate some leftover
chicken wild rice soup and worked on my blog. If you haven't seen it,
you should check out my [homepage]. I finally managed to fit all the
previous blog posts on it in a way that didn't seem cluttered. For a
while I convinced myself that it was just too much information for
anyone to be interested in, but the second it was available I myself
spent a good five or ten minutes browsing old journal entries and
reading what I was up to at different times of the year. Anyway, I'm
pretty happy with this setup. The next blog item I was planning on was
going back and declassifying as many private posts as I can.

After lunch, I had a few meetings, then I jumped on the bus to head home
for the day. As the \#15 bus bumped along East Wash, I frantically
googled around for convincing hutspot recipes. I was convinced the
recipe wasn't going to work - boiling potatoes is great, but adding the
same weight of carrots and onions sounded a little obtuse, and I just
couldn't imagine a pot full of carrots cooking as quickly as potatoes,
which made mashing them together at the end seem impossible. But I kept
the faith, and before long I arrived home ready to take Rodney to the
store. When I walked up the driveway, he and Marissa were decorating the
front steps with Halloween decorations. There were a few light up
pumpkins, some spooky spider webs, and a light up corgi dressed as a
bumble bee, which Rodney nicknamed *bumble bee puppy*.

After some toddler feet dragging, Rodney, giraffe, and I jumped in the
car. I was relieved that Hy-Vee wasn't as busy as they were the previous
day. The parking lot was mostly empty, and we would have had an easier
time moving through the aisles, but Rodney insisted on riding his
giraffe like a horse. This was as far from a brisk gallop as you could
get, and more like a pensive trudge while dragging the stuffed animal
between his legs. By the time we got to the meat counter, I made him
relieve giraffe to the shopping cart and walk next to me. We drove home
with potatoes, carrots, onions, kale, and bacon. Before I started
cooking, I opened a box I got from amazon that had Marissa and Rodney's
Halloween costumes - suits from [Into the Spider-Verse]. Later while I
was cooking I would catch Rodney sitting on the couch wearing his black
Spider-Man mask.

Marissa sat in the kitchen and chatted with me, helping me peel carrots.
We quartered the potatoes, carrots, and onions, piling the cuts up in
the dutch oven and covering it with water. I started the stove, then
prepared the bacon and kale. The water came to a boil, and I covered it.
"I just don't see how this is going to work out - tonight might be a
pizza night," I said covering the pot filled with vegetables. Thirty
minutes later, I removed the lid and sampled a carrot. Through the magic
of dutch cooking (yet again), it was soft, sweet, and somehow took on a
completely new flavor while just sitting in a pot of simmering water. I
drained the vegetables, then mashed them. The bright orange carrots
melted into the pale potatoes, turning the mixture into this soft pastel
light orange color, sweetened by the yellow onions. Just before calling
everyone down for dinner, I heated up some leftover chuck steak - which
wasn't a cop out, hutspot is apparently supposed to be served with
braised beef. We ate dinner, and the first few minutes were silent while
we studied the new recipe.

As Marissa was giving Rodney a bath, there was a knock on the door from
our nextdoor neighbor. I let the dogs out the back, then joined her on
the porch. I don't want to use my journal to air dirty laundry because
this is a happy place for me, but it got pretty confrontational. We've
had an ongoing property line dispute. Luckily this time we didn't have
much to argue about, since Marissa and I are finally just getting a
surveyor out to lay down the line once and for all. As a naive first
time homeowner, the idea that someone could disagree about where our
yard and their yard met seemed silly to me, and shelling out a few
hundred dollars to get an official decision from the city seemed even
sillier, but after spending some time on google, I was comforted to
learn that property line disputes are pretty common, and one of the big
reasons why surveying your yard and using a mediator are such a
straightforward process. In hindsight, a few hundred dollars seems like
a small price to pay to never have to talk to my neighbor about that
damn property line again.

She seemed pleased that a surveyor was coming, and she agreed to respect
the outcome, then walked off in a huff. I left to clean the kitchen,
gritting my teeth as I washed dishes. One tough lesson that I've learned
through this whole thing is anger has a way of corroding you over time,
even if you're in the right. I'm pretty sure my neighbor is wrong about
the property line. In a few days, I'll be able to prove it with a
document, and she'll have to comply with it. You would think that
Marissa and I would feel relieved and a little triumphant, but we've
held onto this anger for so long that every outcome of this dispute just
tastes bitter.

Marissa clicked around on Home Depot's website, shopping for white
picket fences. "Good fences make good neighbors," I remarked as Marissa
let out a tired chuckle.

After we had finished winding down, we sat on the couch and watched the
rest of Blade Runner. Though it dragged at the beginning, it was a
delight to finally see that dramatic "tears in the rain" ending in full
context.

Today I'm working from home, hanging out with the Rodman in the morning
while Marissa goes to dog class. In a few moments, I'll jump in the
shower, then get him out of bed. Oh, and I forgot to mention that today
I'm writing the entry on my new computer. I've upgraded to a Raspberry
Pi 4, and I splurged on the model with 4 GB of RAM. Emacs is a lot
snappier on this computer, and it was a welcome upgrade. Shout-out to my
folks for the birthday gift card that made it happen.

Hope you have a great day today. Remember, reader - good fences make
good neighbors, and there's no sense in trying to settle a property
dispute without a licensed surveyor. That argument may as well be tears
in the rain.

  [The Secret World of Alex Mack]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DAORNCSkGc
  [homepage]: https://www.alexrecker.com
  [Into the Spider-Verse]: https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=3&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiDpq2qmo_lAhVCHqwKHaliBEkQFjACegQIABAB&url=https%253A%252F%252Fen.wikipedia.org%252Fwiki%252FSpider-Man%253A_Into_the_Spider-Verse&usg=AOvVaw1_0bqKwhrmvDmIKpBaUo26

