---
title: beer, toothpaste, and labels
---

Dear Journal,

It's a beautiful day today! Lately, Wednesdays are my very busy days,
but the nice weather and the smell of good coffee is talking me into it.
Today I'm drinking this new blend of coffee I grabbed from the Jenny
Street market called "smart ass". The label had a little picture of a
donkey wearing thick glasses, and that was the only sales pitch I
needed. And it's delicious! So really not a bad choice in the end. You'd
be surprised at how many of my buying choices are totally based on
something silly, like whether or not the label makes me laugh. And you'd
be even more surprised at how often that strategy works out. Like when
it comes to craft beer, you gotta go with a label & name that's
confident, but not pretentious.

I'm being kind of facetious, but there's probably some truth to that.
How things are labeled and named are a reflection of a creator's
personality, aren't they? If you pick out a beer with a muted, thin
cursive letters, bearing an aloof name like *Wensleton Pale Ale* (that's
not a real beer, I just made it up), chances are the brewers think very
highly of themselves and the beer is not as good as they think it is.

3 Floyd's beer makes me think of rock and roll. The brews have quasi
violent names, and the bottles are decked out with intense death metal
imagery, and the regalia is fitting. In the past few years, they've kind
of become true brewing rock stars of the Midwest. There's a lot of beer
competition in Wisconsin, let alone Madison, and very few out of state
beers seem to make it into my liquor store. The fact that 3 Floyd's has
two shelves all on their own in a Madison liquor store speaks for
itself.

Me and Marissa's daily driver is Fantasy Factory, which is known for its
utterly ridiculous label. It's a cat, holding a golden pistol wearing
some ninja garb riding on a unicorn. And truth be told, I never studied
the picture in detail, but I think there's a light saber and some ninja
stars represented as well. But the label is as ridiculous as it is
magnificent. I think the ridiculous ninja-cat-on-a-unicorn strikes a
chord with people who would rather live without shame. The brewery that
makes Fantasy Factory can be a little over the top at times, but they
can afford to experiment and be a little outlandish because their
hometown loves them so much and they're not going anywhere.

Sometimes labels can be misleading. I keep buying the wrong toothpaste
at Hy-Vee. Toothpaste brands look way too similar, so I end up just
grabbing the first blue box that makes me think "yeah, I think I've seen
you hanging around in our bathroom cabinet before". And the imagery of
wintergreen rapids and frosty winds lull you into an assurance that even
if you didn't pick the brand you normally get, your mouth is still going
to feel clean and refreshed. But you made a mistake, and the toothpaste
that's supposed to be blue comes out white with a gross little red
stripe and the taste vaguely resembles playdough sweetened with splenda,
and now you have a whole month to look forward to of putting up with
this utter stranger in your morning routine.

Sometimes I wish certain things didn't have labels. Have you ever peeled
the label off of the containers in your fridge? Sometimes I transfer
things like cheese, lemon juice, or salsa to clear bags or Tupperware. I
like being able to glance at something and quickly see how much is left.
I like reaching for a bottle that's bright green, and undeniably filled
with lime juice because what else would be in it? I don't need a weird
picture of a farmer's head or solemn organic lime farming regalia to
show me where the lime juice is.

Labels get a little noisy sometimes. It feels like you can flip over
every bag or bottle and read things like "YOU CHOSE NEWMAN'S RANCH - do
you know what that says about you?" or "You're cool, calm and collected,
aren't you? We can tell, because you chose to enjoy David's Sunflower
Seeds". Label your product. Put some humor and pride in it. But don't
try to reach into my private life and project your weird corporate
delusions onto me. I'm just a guy, I'm not a *Newman's ranch dressing*
guy.

Well, time to start the day. We *Newman's ranch dressing guys* are
relentlessly punctual. Go rip the label off of something.

