---
title: friends, idle time, and vegan food
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Wednesday. I've finally made it to the end
of this short work week. Yesterday I spent most of the day quietly
writing code with my headphones on, and while it would have been sweet
if it all worked the first time pushing it out without making any
changes, code doesn't usually work that way. At four yesterday, as I
read the output of the jenkins job, I shook my fist in the air. Failed.
Since then I feel like there was a single thread in the back of my brain
still working on it - almost as if that software bug is keeping me from
starting my midweek vacation.

Normally, on Wednesdays I work from home, but being my last work day
this week I decided to go in today. It will be easier to focus, and it
will probably give Marissa more room to move things around the living
room and finish painting. She decided to paint the walls a different
color, and while I'm not the most in tune with subtle color changes, the
walls she's finished make me feel just slightly more relaxed than they
did before, so overall it was a net positive, imperceptible change.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. Like I mentioned, I spent most of the
day hacking away at a new automated job. While working, I listened to
the early draft of my 2019 mixtape, taking down notes of small things
that need editing. This year, I'm trying to pay a lot of attention to
the listen-ability. It always drives me mad when songs on a mixtape or
collection aren't the same volume, so specifically I'm trying to make
everything sound as even as possible - the kind of CD where you don't
even notice the dead air between the track changes. And of course, a
good mixtape is all about momentum. I like when a track sets the mood
for the next, and when the next track can also take you somewhere new
while using the momentum of the last, if that makes any sense.

After work, I caught the bus home and walked in the living room. Marissa
was behind the TV painting & watching Lord of the Rings. Earlier that
day, we decided to make plans for dinner with some friends, so not
having a toddler to watch nor dinner to cook, I just flopped my bag on
the ground and rolled onto the couch. Marissa joined me for a bit with a
bag of chips and some leftover guac. It's been a while since I've
returned from work and had absolutely nothing to do, and I'm not going
to lie to you - it felt kind of luxurious. "Oh no," I yelled, glancing
at my phone trying to look fake anxious - "we only have an hour and a
half to unwind before our next commitment!" As we caught up on unwatched
YouTube videos, Ziggy fell asleep in my lap. Soon it did actually come
time to meet our friends for dinner, but before we left we did a video
call with Rodney. I'm grateful he's old enough and aware enough to
actually talk with us on a video call. In the brief time we spoke, he
had plenty of stories for us about shopping, seeing his cousins, and
playing soccer with Grandma. I miss him, but I'm also glad he's having a
good time. Being away from home is an important skill to learn, I think.
And if you don't start practicing early, it gets a lot harder to learn.

After our video call with Rodney, we put the dogs away, then jumped in
the car to meet our friends for dinner. They were taking us to a vegan &
vegetarian restaurant in our neighborhood. Sitting at a cozy table in
the back snacking on some vegan buffalo wings, we caught up with their
life, holiday plans, and other things. For dinner, I had a *macrobowl*
with a side of tempeh. To be honest, I just ordered it because I wanted
a chance to say *macrobowl* aloud, and our friends encouraged me to get
the tempeh so I could experience the crafty meat substitution this place
was famous for. Indeed, if I was wearing a blindfold, and perhaps a
little drunk, I could have scarfed down the whole meal thinking I was
eating chicken wings and a burrito bowl with little pieces of steak.

Even though Marissa and I eat plenty of meat, we're grateful for the
thriving meatless community in Madison. Occasionally, we eat vegetarian
or vegan totally unprompted the way a tourist visits a country just for
the experience. From the sidelines, I watch the innovations of meatless
eating with admiration, because a small piece of me is convinced that I
might live long enough to see the modern carnivorous diet die off, and
pretty soon we might wind up in a *Mad Max: Fury Road* situation where
the only meat left to enjoy is canned wet dog food or something. In the
event that ever happens, I'd like to get ahead of it and figure out my
vegetarian preferences. Could you picture Marissa and I roving the
dessert in a rusted jeep with spikes on the wheels? I'd probably be
snacking on a little bag of tempeh in the front seat while Marissa
vigilantly scanned the arid desert for raiders.

After dinner, Marissa and I swung by Hy-Vee, then went home for the
night. She painted a bit more, and for the most part I just hung around
on the couch. I thought I'd have plenty of energy to work on chores, but
ironically, not having Rodney around has the opposite effect on me. I
actually find it a lot harder to get stuff done. So most of yesterday
evening, I sat on the couch with Zig Zig and watched Lord of the Rings
with Marissa while she painted. A pretty mellow evening. I love crushing
the chores midweek, but I guess it's not often I get the chance to just
chill with my dogs and watch a movie I've already seen.

So that's what I got today. We have another childless day today, but
this one should be busier. Marissa and I have to finish preparing for
the gallery this weekend, along with doing laundry and doing final
touches on the house while we still can. Our goal is to leave things at
maximum coziness for when we return home later this weekend.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. Here's to lazy nights and half
work weeks!

