---
title: mixtapes, errands, roasted chicken, and splinter cell
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! It's a wonderful day, isn't it? It's only Sunday
and I've had so much sleep, I barely feel the need to drink any coffee
today. I still will drink coffee, because going without coffee in the
morning would be absolutely crazy. Speaking of coffee, the Moccamaster
is still absolutely killing it. I think we found our coffee maker for
life. The smaller pot was a little strange to get used to (it's only 10
cups as opposed to the usual 12), but conversely it magically takes
about five minutes to brew a new pot. I don't know how it heats up the
water so quickly, but it's a joy to watch.

And my metal filter finally arrived in the mail - it fits much better
than the flat paper ones I was using. Unbeknownst to us, the package had
been sitting in front of our side door for a month, and while stepping
out to drop off some cookies with our neighbors, Marissa stumbled across
it. I guess we need to check that door for mail occasionally.

Yesterday was a pretty great day too. We all slept in and got a late
start, then Marissa took Rodney out running some errands, leaving me at
home with the dogs to work on my mixtape. I worked on it pretty much the
whole day, ordering and editing tracks, arriving at just shy of 160MB of
music. I didn't do any writing, but now I'm on the fence about it. I
might instead put time into just making a cool CD cover and burning more
copies. I think the mix turned out pretty good this year. I gave it a
test run while I showered and got dressed, and it has got good momentum
and decent variety.

After Marissa returned home with Rodney, we all jumped in the car again
and went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner. I decided to make Chef John's
[Greek lemon garlic roasted chicken & potatoes], which has been camping
out in my favorites for a while. We picked up some drumsticks and
thighs, russet potatoes, kale, and salad dressing. By the time we got
home, it was already 6:30, so I decided to serve the kale salad first,
which had sliced apples, grapefruit, a raspberry dressing, and just a
whole hecking ton of roasted sunflower seeds. While we munched on salad
and some bread, I roasted the potatoes and chicken in the oven, tossed
in lemon juice, olive oil, garlic, and spices, and basted in some
chicken broth. It turned out really good, and I think it will definitely
be returning as a weeknight recipe.

We put Rodney to bed, then Marissa and I spent the rest of the night
hanging out. I decided to play some video games, and being in the mood
for some nostalgia, I spun up *Splinter Cell: Conviction*, which was a
game released in 2010 that I was deeply obsessed with in college. The
game really holds up. As I started the first level, all the muscle
memory ingrained in my fingers from hours of playing that game returned,
and to my delight I expertly zipped through the first four levels.
Marissa came downstairs and joined me on the couch.

"So bring me up to speed here, what's this game about?" Marissa asked. I
took a minute to gather my thoughts while absentmindedly choking out a
guard in the shadows. "Well Sam Fischer is like this government agent
special ops dude," I said. "And he thought his daughter died, but it
turns out it was a set-up. And it wasn't even his daughter, and she
might be alive. And the lady talking in my headset is Anna Grimmsdotter,
and she's working as a mole for my old agency which is now run by this
bad dude named Tom Reidâ€¦", my voice trailed off as I struggled to unpack
the rest of the plot. "You know what," I said interrupted myself. "It's
not really the kind of game where you need to understand the plot to
enjoy it." Marissa nodded, undoubtedly relieved that she could check out
from my meandering recap. As Sam, I was sneaking around a little
carnival in front of the Washington Monument. Some dudes sent to *take
me out* evacuated the carnival under the premise of a gas leak, and were
now stalking the labyrinth of rides and attractions looking for Sam. We
chuckled listening to the background dialog that would get louder as I
approached an unsuspecting baddie. "Guys, we wanted to get the jump on
Sam, but I think the *opposite* is true." In all my years of playing
this game, I don't think even I've ever heard that line. And it sounded
very out of place.

Just before shutting off the game, I abandoned stealth and ran into
broad daylight and attracted a furry of machine gun fire. I wanted to
see how long I could last. After running in awkward figure eights
beneath a spotlight amidst frantic shouting and machine gun fire, Sam
Fischer finally slumped to the ground. An EMP grenade I threw just
before dying exploding, which looked especially cinematic. I turned off
the game, and Marissa and I used the last hour of the night to enjoy
some popcorn and watch a movie.

Today, the plan is to go to church (which is quickly approaching, at the
time of writing this we have about forty minutes before we need to jump
in the car). After church, we're going to go to the grocery store, which
is going to take some thought, since between traveling and holidays,
we'll need to get enough food in our house to last us through Christmas.
Sometime in the afternoon, my good buddy from college Grant is going to
stop by on his way up to Wausau, so we're looking forward to hanging out
with him, and maybe even making him a snack to get him through the last
leg of his drive. Lastly, it's game day. The Bears are playing tonight
at seven, and for the first time in a while, all three of us will be
home to watch it together. It might not be the most meaningful game of
the season, but watching football together is fun on its own merit.

That's what I got today. Whatever you get up to, I hope you have a
relaxing, yet productive weekend. Bear down!

  [Greek lemon garlic roasted chicken & potatoes]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h6OSMbfhIao

