---
title: costumes and fudge
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone - and happy Halloween. This morning was a little
more complicated than usual, as I had to figure out how to slip into my
Spider-Man costume and conceal all the revealing bits so it would be
work place appropriate. I spent about five minutes deliberating and
staring at the bathroom mirror, and I finally settled on a black pair of
athletic shorts. I think I made the right call. Today the front of the
costume wasn't looking too bad, but after I thought to turn around and
check the butt situation, things were looking pretty HD back there, if
you catch my drift.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. I worked from home all day, and took a
break to meet Rob at Glass Nickel for some lunch. Afterwards, I knocked
out some more work, then decided to put on my costume for my last
meeting of the day, which earned a nice laugh. Truth be told, it's
really comfortable in this thing. It feels like something that you would
wear while running outside, except it covers your fingers. But it's
warm, and I definitely don't feel naked (although without the black
shorts, I assure you I look naked).

After work, we all put our Halloween costumes on. Rodney was not having
it - it took lots of time to ease him into the idea, and through literal
kicking and tears, getting his costume on one leg, arm, and finger at a
time. What really complicated the whole thing was that Marissa and I
were already in costume at this point. I could imagine that if you were
peering into our house during that noisy half hour, seeing Spider-Man
and Spider-Woman rough up a screaming toddler would have been quite the
site.

After Rodney got his suit on, we all sat on the couch and cooled down
with an episode of Blippi. I jumped around the living room to get some
laughs out of him, and Rodney slowly warmed up to the idea. We bundled
up and jumped in the car, making our way downtown.

Looking around the square, Marissa started to get nervous. "So just
updating you all, I don't see anyone in costume yet," she said. "It's
OK, everyone is probably just on State Street or something," I assured
her.

We made our way to State street. There was still no costumes to be seen.
We ducked into an ally to avoid the chilly wind while Marissa consulted
her phone. "So it was last week. Trick or Treating for the kids downtown
was on the 23rd," Marissa summarized. We were a week late. Rodney,
standing there in his spider-man costume holding an empty bucket was
none the wiser.

After a quick family meeting outside the Orpheum, we decided to just get
some fudge instead. "Dude, the only thing better than a bucket filled
with candy is a bucket full of fudge," I assured Rodney. We turned into
the fudge shop and picked out some chocolate covered pretzels, some
fudge, and a bear claw - that was for me, for later.

As we paid for our treats, we chatted with the owner, who was nice
enough to offer us some caramel apple samples. It turns out we knew the
guy through a friend. We told them about how we thought the kids were
trick or treating on the square and were getting fudge in lieu of candy.

"Well here, we have some extra candy too," he said, grabbing a bag from
the back. Rodney held out his paint bucket and repeated my words quietly
- *Tricker-Treat*. Marissa carried on the conversation. "I'm just
worried that we stick out like a sore thumb - I feel like everyone can
tell we made a mistake."

"Nah, you just look like fun people," he said closing the fudge case.

We left the fudge shop and walked back into the square. We decided to
eat out at the old fashion. I put on my mask, and put Rodney on my
shoulders, and we got plenty of fist bumps and *Hey Spidey!*'s along the
way.

We ate dinner at the Old Fashioned, then made our way to the car. I
decided to scare Marissa by putting on my mask and jumping on the hood
of the car after everyone climbed in. She decided to scare me in return
by slowly backing the car out while I was on top. She called my bluff,
probably knowing that I couldn't really see anything with my mask on. I
flopped off the car and got in.

I kept my suit on while I put Rodney to bed. As I guided Rodney through
his bedtime routine, I noticed that he addressed me as *Spider*, and was
more prompt than usual with following instructions. Maybe the suit
commands an extra sense of authority.

After I came down stairs, I chatted with Marissa, who was on the couch
gulping down a sparkling water. "Is it just me or was that dinner way
too salty?" she complained. "Oh I'm completely parched, and I just got
the soup." I assured her.

I finally took off my suit so I could knock out my chores for the
evening. I earned extra husband points by dicing the rest of Marissa's
red onion in the fridge - that's part of her *salad stash*. She joked
that she expected me to just throw everything out. "I thought about it,"
I laughed. "But then I'd just have to buy it all again."

This morning, I'm wearing the suit to work, and after test driving it
yesterday, I've put plenty of thought into how I'll get through the day.
Since touch screens are a lot harder to use, I'm even bringing my own
wireless mouse. Today should be a mostly regular work day, but I'm
pretty sure there is also a Halloween party mixed in there. I'm not
going to lie to you, readers. I like wearing the suit - not just because
it's comfortable, but I like feeling a little like Spider-Man. I feel
like I could walk outside and foil a mugging, or stop a runaway subway -
as long as I'm not wearing the mask, I can barely walk in a straight
line with that thing on my face.

Happy Halloween, everyone. Stay safe out there!

