---
title: morning, stirfry, projects, and gravy
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Tuesday! This morning I jumped out of bed much
sooner than I usually do and enjoyed some YouTube while I waited for the
coffee to finish brewing. I'm seriously considering making it a personal
installment in my morning routine. Plus, I'm feeling much more coherent
than I'd normally be just rolling out of bed and starting a journal
entry.

Yesterday it felt pretty good to get back to work, but it was a really
busy day filled with planning and meetings. Lately I've just kind of
accepted that on Mondays, I don't have much time at my desk. I might
have a free half hour or hour, so once I sit down I try to make a
checklist of things I want to get done in that work session and then
crank 'em out.

After work, I took Rodney to the grocery store to pick up stuff to make
stir fry. When I got home, he and Marissa were snuggling on the couch
under a blanket, and he didn't want to leave. "No Hy-Vee. Cozy," he
said. But as he heard me putting my shoes on and heading out the door,
he changed his mind and ran over to the kitchen to join me.

When we got home, I made shrimp stir-fry with some vegetables. I still
have a serious phobia with making rice, so I leaned on my good friend
Uncle Ben. The stir fry turned out good, but not great. I was really shy
with the sauce. I used to have a problem of adding too much sauce and
too many vegetables, making it wet and difficult to heat up, and it
appears I've over-corrected.

After Rodney went to bed, I wrapped up another leg of the file server
project. I got it to the point where I was ready to run the plex server
back on. It's good to have plex back. To celebrate (and kick the tires
on the new setup), I watched *I Think You Should Leave* on shuffle while
I cleaned things up.

Today, I'm eager to finally decommission the old server. I'll re-purpose
the remaining final two hard drives as redundancy, then start
brainstorming for how I'd like to put to work the two raspberry pi's
I've freed up. I've had the hankering to play some old video games, so
there are good chances that a retropie will be involved.

I'm also eager to try out classic, traditional gravy. I found a good
video and studied up, and I'm confident that I can get it working.

Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday today. You can be sure I will
report back my gravy and file server success.

