---
title: sneezing, bowling, and joker
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. To set the scene
here, the smell of bacon & slightly burnt butter lingers in the kitchen.
Breakfast debris litters the dining room table. Justin and Megan can be
overheard in our living room chatting and packing up their things.
Marissa sits slumped over still in her chair from Breakfast, glaring at
me with tired puppy dog eyes. "Are you ready for errand day?" I tease.

Despite being on the third day of my cold, I'm actually feeling pretty
good. I've entered into the very silly chain-sneezing stage of things.
And can I be honest? Sneezing is pretty fun. I'm not talking about the
polite kind where you muffle it in your jacket or elbow, then as
obligated by society, you have to convince everyone with Joaquin Phoenix
acting that absolutely nothing came out of your nose. I'm talking about
the kind of sneezes where you are by yourself in your bedroom, or maybe
about to jump into the shower, and not only can you sneeze without
covering your mouth, but you can also put your back into it. I guess In
Rodney's case, where he hasn't yet learned about the social stigma of
runny dangling boogers, that's just about every sneeze for him. And you
have to envy that. This weekend, I'm also thinking about Justin and
Megan. The three of us Reckers have been practically sneezing all over
the place, and I hate the thought of helping this stupid little cold
propagate. If they make it out of this house without a cold, you can
count me amazed.

OK, there's probably an unspoken rule where you can spend more than a
paragraph talking about boogers, so let's transition, shall we?
Yesterday was a pretty great day. I worked from home and kept things
pretty mellow. Marissa took Megan and Justin to her dog agility seminar
in the afternoon while Rodney screwed around in the living room. To his
advantage, I spaced out and didn't remember his 2:30 nap until 3:30. By
the time I glanced up from my laptop, Rodney was standing aimlessly in
the living room wearing my headphones, his construction goggles, and
holding his Nerf gun.

Rodney slept, and soon Marissa returned home with her kin. After making
a quick run to Hy-Vee to stock up on breakfast supplies, we went out to
Mr. Brew's. That was the place we selected after a tumultuous
deliberation on eat out places. Picking a place to eat is challenging
because Marissa and I seemingly have a horror story for just about every
restaurant around us, and even more so if we're talking about the
restaurants that are actually open on Monday evening. But Mr. Brew's is
a solid choice, as long as I steer clear of their *Peanut Buster Burger*
- which I did. We finished eating and left just as their trivia night
started.

Next stop was bowling. We parked at the *Dream Lanes*, got some shoes,
and started chucking balls. We only had time for one game before
Rodney's bed time, but sharing in Rodney's enthusiasm each time he
knocked over even a single pin made for a full experience. I also must
have played the best game of my life last night. For someone who can
barely bowl over 80 most nights, you can imagine how surprised I was to
bowl a 116 (citation pending, I was actually too excited to remember my
exact score). Throughout the game, Justin and I enjoyed a Spotted Cow
from the bar, which if you step back and judge fairly, is probably the
best beer to bowl with.

On the way out, Auntie Megan slipped Rodney some change so he could buy
a toy from the vending machine. The first toy that came out was an LA
Chargers plastic football. He glanced at the toy, and immediately put it
back in the chute, moving to the next machine with two more quarters
financed by his kind auntie. This time, it yielded a sticky hand, and
that was good enough to leave.

When we got home, Rodney went to bed, and the four of us crashed on the
couch with some snacks to watch the rest of Joker. Having an hour left
to watch before turning in for the night yesterday, we were all pretty
pleased with the movie. "That's wasn't bad," I said offering a passing
review. "The love story felt a little wedged in, but Joaquin kind of
carries the movie."

Well picking up where we left off, the movie took a real nose dive. As
the movie marched on with long gratuitous establishing shots of Joaquin
dancing around weirdly in his apartment (which was also a blatant
rip-off of taxi driver), the plot holes abounded, and then at the end of
the movie (spoiler coming), they hit you with the old *he's insane and
most of this probably wasn't real* trick. The film continues to meander
until the climax, where Joaquin magically incites an angry, murderous
riot with a stammering speech that sounded cobbled together from
unrelated *Bullet for My Valentine* lyrics - the kind of stuff you'd
write on your notebook in ninth grade with a really dark black gel pen.
Not to mention he somehow got on the Late Show by appearing in a viral
video. It's the 80s. There's no YouTube, Facebook, or Twitter. Are we
supposed to believe the VHS tape of him flopping at a comedy club was
copied and distributed so rampantly that he was asked to appear on the
Late Show?

To sum up, *Joker* was a bad movie, and it wasn't even bad in the fun
way. We rounded off the night by watching an episode of Seinfeld. I
picked Season Nine's *The Merv Griffin Show*, which weirdly enough fit
with the theme of the Joker.

So that's what I got today. Going forward, our New Year's Even will be
finally putting the house back together, taking down Christmas lights,
and hopefully watching a better movie than *Joker*. And who knows, maybe
I'll even take a shower. Caught up the hustle of traveling and
hospitality, I've missed a few days and I've gotten to the point where
I'm afraid to take my yellow beanie off.

I hope you all have a wonderful New Year's eve. I suppose I should take
some time to reflect on all the journal entries I've completed. Expect
that soon - but not now. Cleaning now - thinking & reflecting later.

