---
title: typos and kanye
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Hope you're having a great Tuesday, wherever you
are. Where I'm at now, it's 7:29 AM, and there's a bit of snow on the
ground - which is exciting, because it feels like with all the extra
light bouncing around the morning is just a little brigther.

This morning I have a lot of things rolling around in my head. Yesterday
wasn't really that recap worthy. I took Rodney to the grocery store,
came home, then made some hashbrowns with tilapia cooked over onions. I
grated the potatoes with a cheese grater and wrung out all the water
with cheese cloth, then cooked them in hot cast iron. They were a little
too salty, but I was just grateful that they browned and actually formed
a little patty. Before and during dinner was a little rough - Rodney had
kind of a bad behavior day, and Marissa and I are still a little
exhausted from dealing with it, and it just doesn't feel right to make
light of it. Putting him to bed last night, we ended things on a high
note, and if all goes according to plan we'll be back to goofing around
in the grocery store, cooking dinner, and making jokes around the dinner
table.

Another topic that is rolling around in my head this morning is typos.
These journal entries I make every morning usually have one or two
mistakes. Sometimes when I have trouble focusing or waking up, I publish
an entry with about a dozen mistakes. Typos make things hard to read,
and I avoid them. Usually, after running the publishing script and
walking over to the bus stop, the first thing I do is read the entry.
Yesterday, I cringed at how many errors were in my post. One or two
doesn't bother me, but if it gets to the point where it hinders what I'm
trying to get across, that's a problem for me.

You might ask, "why don't you just proofread it?" I try to. I used to
write for twenty minutes in the morning, get about 800 words, then I'd
take about 10 minutes to edit it down. I tend to write too many words,
so the final product would be around 700 words. These days, the more I
write, the more comfortable I feel filling 1000, so much so that 700-800
just leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Eventually I chose to just
sacrifice the last few minutes of proof reading for the sake of writing
more. Writing clears my head, it feels good, and while I try not to
leave any typos, I don't want to sacrifice extra time in the morning.

I also feel the need to point out that a typo isn't a lack of
understanding. Typo's are a mechanical failure. Even though I might type
"though" instead of "thought", or "your" instead of "you're", I know
which word you're supposed to use. I know my grammar, and unless you
bring an eight grade grammar book over and challenge me to a shootout,
you'll just have to trust me. I'm one of the only adults I know that can
still diagram sentences. I care about grammar. It's part of the way I
think.

Just wanted to throw that out there. To sum up, I'm aware that I leave
typos behind. This is a very personal medium, which is why I choose
quantity over quality. I assure you the typos are a trade-off of time
and focus - not a result of me being stupid.

Man, another thing kicking around in my head is this new Kanye album.
The reviews finally started coming out, and they're not looking good. My
favorite music reviewer even gave it a 4/10. I love the album, and that
doesn't change; but the critical reception of Jesus Is King has already
put things in perspective. I was sobered remembering how much I enjoyed
watching Chance's *The Big Day* get ripped apart by the presses, and how
much I egged everyone on. I did the same thing with Eminem's latest
album.

I still love the album, but the first time you listen to something after
the reviews come out always feels a little different - like you're
burying your head in the sand because you're afraid to confront
something.

I think the album is good, and people will grow to like it over time. If
you read the reviews, it seems like people are too hung up on the
concept to enjoy the music. Yes - whether or not Kanye's faith is
genuine, he's not qualified to lead you in worship. Attending a church
and leading it are not the same thing. The lyrics are a little
misguided. Even wrapped in the robes of religion, he still finds plenty
of places for his ego to shine brighter. But Kanye's depravity and ego
has always been a part of his music. One of his albums is called "My
Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy." He has a song called "I am a god," for
crying out loud.

But I'd encourage you to just listen to the music. Do your best to
forget about Kanye, how expensive his silly ripped t shirts are, and how
many times he's delayed the release of this very brief album. Just
listen to the album.

So that's my time. As always, thanks for reading. I had a lot of things
to get out of my head this morning, and as a result I'm feeling lighter
and happier.

