---
title: thanksgiving
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy black Friday, if that even is a real
holiday. And speaking of which, I'm even starting to wonder if Black
Friday is even still a think. Watching from the sidelines as Marissa
hunted for online deals last night, I didn't notice anything special.
I'm not one to hunt for discounts and hoard coupons, but from what I
observed, Black Friday is nothing to make a fuss about.

This morning I'm coming to you again from Rochester Minnesota at my
official, unofficial morning writing spot at the kitchen bar. Megan has
a baking sheet lined with Christmas cookies on the counter, the family
is watching TV in the sun room, and Marissa is slowly winding up for the
day downstairs in our bedroom. I'm rocking a low roar of a headache, but
a fresh pot of coffee is inbound.

Yesterday was a wonderful day. We rolled out of bed sometime around
eight. I had about an hour to kill before we needed to start preparing
to make turkey. The house was already buzzing with anticipation and
nervous energy. Everyone was due to arrive at noon, and dinner on the
table at 2. Marissa and I sleepily pulled the turkeys out of the brine,
rinsed them in the basement sink, and padded the birds dry with wads of
paper towels in between sips of coffee. We laughed like school kids each
time the legs flopped open, or one of the birds happened to rest in an
awkward position.

After we dried the birds, we carefully walked them upstairs and cleared
space on the kitchen counter. We seasoned them, and delicately spread
butter under the skin. When you take a step back from tradition and look
at the activity of preparing a turkey on its own merit, it's kind of a
bizarre ritual, isn't it? Spreading butter underneath the skin is
certainly a weird sensation. "Nobody look me in the eye," I announced in
the kitchen.

We tied the birds and got them respectively in the grill and oven at
11:02 AM. Still on track. Marissa started her bird in the oven hot, but
my grill was taking some time to warm up. To solve the uneven burning
problem I encountered in this year's practice run, I counted the number
of charcoals in each chamber. Forty on the left and forty on the right -
sounds like something out of the Old Testament, doesn't it?

As Marissa and I monitored the temperature, people started to trickle
in. I'm not going to lie, reader, I'm not a great multi-tasker, and
Thanksgiving prep this year was a challenge. I had a turkey on the grill
(which despite carefully counting the charcoal, was still suffering wild
heat swings), a turkey in the oven, and to top it off, the Bears were
playing the Lions, and they were losing. As the football game flickered
on the small kitchen TV in the corner, somehow our struggle in getting
dinner prepared and the Chicago's struggle in beating the incredibly
beatable Lions felt the same.

While watching the turkeys, there was about ten minutes of peace where I
was able to forget about everything, and that was when Sister Marlene
gave me a tour of her fantasy football team. "Back when I was a Math
teacher, I was the only woman on the faculty," Sister Marlene explained.
"So all the men made a big deal about fantasy football, and I got into
it with them." Her eyes lit up as she went on, "but Alex, we didn't have
computers to do this for us. I had to gather the stats myself, copying
them from a newspaper. But now look what they do!" Marlene pulled out
her phone and showed me her team, the people she was competing with, and
her league's standings. Her gratitude for the convenience of a modern
fantasy football app was palpable. "But aren't you a Vikings fan? What
about Kirk Cousins, is he on your team?" Sister Marlene paused and
looked at me, silently shaking her head. I could respect that. You root
for your team when they play, but at the end of the day, numbers don't
lie.

Marissa's turkey came to temperature first. It was much sooner than we
expected, and looking back at the recipe we were supposed to drop the
temperature, which we forgot. But we improvised. Like Mitch Trubisky
throwing on the run, we simply took the bird out and padded it in
tinfoil. Meanwhile, my turkey was running out of heat. I excused myself
outside to stoke the fire. Finally, the temperature hit 350F again.
After a quick baste, I shut the lid snug, resolved to not touch it again
for a full hour. As the bird on the grill finished, I started to prep
the gravy. As I strained the turkey stock and melted the butter, I
suddenly remembered I never googled if buckwheat gravy was even
possible. I did enough research to confirm it was gluten free, and aside
from a distant memory of trying buckwheat pancakes at a diner, I assumed
it would behave exactly like flour. "I guess we'll find out if it's
possible," I thought to myself.

The butter cracked and spurted in the pan. I dumped in half the flour
and stirred. The mixture fizzled, and the distant familiar scent of
buckwheat pancakes filled the air. I let the roux cook for a few
minutes, but as buckwheat was a little darker than regular flour, I
figured it would be a bad idea to go by color alone. I dipped a finger
into the hot roux and tasted it. It burned my finger like a hot needle,
but the mixture tasted toasty, comforting, and pleasant. I whisked in
the turkey stock, added salt and pepper, and went in for a final taste,
offering Marissa a spoonful as well. "It tastes like gravy!"

The Bears took the lead in the third quarter. My turkey had about ten
degrees to go. We were in the endgame now. The gravy had reduced a bit
and Marissa and I moved it to a hot gravy boat. At 2:01, we moved both
turkeys to the table. The family gathered for the big reveal. They
sounded like a sitcom studio audience as we removed the foil and cut the
string. The birds turned out really well. Despite heat issues, mine was
not undercooked, and Marissa's was not overcooked. By a hair, both the
Chicago Bears and the Recker family had victory.

We sat at the table, prayed, and dug into our feast of turkey, potatoes,
stuffing, creamed corn, and cranberry fruit salad. The rest of the day
was a blur of snacking, napping, and family time. After cleaning up from
dinner, Marissa's family crashed on the couches in the sun room to watch
a movie. "How about Jingle All the Way?" I suggested. The Redalen family
gave me blank looks, and suddenly I felt lucky to introduce them to one
of the silliest, most unique Christmas movies ever made - and a big
talking point for Minnesota pride!

It was a great day, and I have plenty to be thankful for. Whether we're
talking about my family in Minnesota, my family at home in Chicago, my
immediate family that can all still fit on our blue three seat sofa at
home in Madison, or my distant family flung all over the country perhaps
reading this entry right now, I'm thankful for family.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. As for us - and speaking of
family - we're about to pack the car and go pick up our furry
four-legged family. Hope you all have a great, relaxing weekend.

