---
title: interviews and smalltalk
---

Dear Journal,

I had a pretty tough time rolling out of bed this morning. I think I'm
still a little exhausted from yesterday. I had back to back meetings
most of the day, including a two hour long interview training. That was
the meeting I had been dreading most of the day, but it actually turned
out to be pretty interesting and helpful. We talked about the different
types of biases that can creep into how your perceive interview
candidates, and how it's best to just avoid small talk.

Which makes sense. In an environment where you can be held legally
responsible for discriminating against someone's religion, gender, age,
or appearance, small talk is a a can of worms that's not worth opening.
"What part of town are you from?" "Do you prefer nerdy video game A or
B?" "You must like to break the rules - I can tell from that awesome
tattoo on your face."

Not to say you can't be friendly and relatable with a candidate. You can
still talk about what you're working on, and what you think about the
company, how the position has changed over the years, etc.

During the training, I was reflecting on some of the interviews I've
seen. Occasionally, I conduct code screens for candidates, where I have
to give people problems to solve with code, or administer technical
quizzes. One time I had a guy who was being secretly helped by a friend.
While he was quietly working on the coding problem I gave him, I could
hear whispering and multiple keyboards typing and at some point, they
must have forgotten they were trying to keep it a secret, because they
just started discussing the problem aloud. "Um, how many people are
there?" I asked. "Just two, my friend is helping me." At that point, I
think there was already a mutual understanding that the interview was
going nowhere, so after making it clear that this was against the rules
and you can't have help during the coding challenge, I introduced myself
and got to know his friend.

Doing remote interviews with college students is a lot of fun too. Most
of them take the calls right from their dorm, and there will be silly
posters on the wall, or a wet towel with mold on it hanging in plain
view of the camera. Sometimes their roommate will barge in unexpectedly
and I get to witness some brief animosity.

Interviews are a fun glimpse into people's life. Everyone prepares and
behaves differently. I enjoy watching people adapt, stay composed, and
diffuse the tension in their own special way.

What adaptations do you make when you're nervous? How do you keep your
composure, and what do you do to break the ice?

