---
title: bears
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday at work, I noticed that almost everyone was Greenbay Packers
jerseys. It felt like a coincidence at first, but then I walked by
someone who was *completely* decked out - cheese hat, face paint, and
all. This led me to bring it up in our morning stand-up. "What did the
Packers do?" I asked. "It's the first game of the season tonight,"
someone replied. "They're playing the Bears." The team exchanged knowing
smirks.

I had a pretty regular day at work. Lots of writing code and time spent
in my headphones, which gave me time to think. I thought about the
Bears. I've never been to a Bears game, but I've worn Bears Pajamas & t
shirts, and I used to watch the games on TV with my dad. I remember
going to a super bowl party with church fiends, where we ate nachos and
chicken wings and watch Rex Grossman throw something like a dozen
interceptions for the world to see, and all my friends and family
yelling at the TV.

I thought about sports. Deep down, I've always feared that I jinx sports
teams. I followed the Chicago Blackhawks very closely in sixth grade. I
watched just about every game on TV, and I even got permission from my
teacher to write last night's score on the chalk board every morning. It
was a really [terrible season]. They didn't make the playoffs, and
immediately after the NHL shut down for almost a whole season due to
salary disputes. I've always wondered if I jinxed the season by
watching.

After getting home, Marissa, Rod, and I jumped in the car to run some
errands. Marissa and I talked about the game. She noticed all the
Packers gear out in the wild too, and independently found out there was
a big game tonight. Occasionally, we have the "which sports teams does
are family support" discussion, and it was especially relevant then. "I
could probably support the Packers," Marissa added. "My family would
give me crap because they're all Vikings fans, but we live here now, and
we should be proud Wisconsinites."

I winced. "I don't think I could bring myself to wear anything with a
Packers logo. Do you think you could actually put on a Greenbay Packers
shirt?" Marissa shrugged. "Yeah, I don't see why not. I think the
Jerseys are cool. What's your issue with it?" That was a good question,
and I didn't have a good answer. At the time of writing this, I don't
think I have a single Bears logo in the house. But apparently I'm still
enough of a Bears fan to instinctively hate the Packers. "I don't know,"
I replied. "It must be just psychological at this point. I'm getting a
little anxious just picturing myself as a Packers fan, and I feel guilty
just imagining it."

Marissa smirked, "I guess we're Bears fans. We should watch the game
tonight and support them." I admired her bravery. She was convinced that
she could follow any sports team she wanted, and from what I know about
Minnesota, defecting to the Bears is equally as treacherous as defecting
to the Packers.

When we got home, I put the game on the TV. Rodney instinctively sat on
the couch on my lap with his milk and settled in. Having sports in the
house constitutes a special occasion and is worthy of extending bedtime,
so I decided to sacrifice story time and let him stay up to watch a few
more drives. He watched the Packers take the lead and score a touch
down. To give him the full football experience, I even yelled at the TV.
"AH C'MON! Dang it." He happily joined me in my feigned enthusiasm. Even
though I don't follow sports too closely, I've always enjoyed making
little comments to myself between plays and trying to sound savvy, and
Rodney was enjoying it. The second quarter ended with the Bears still
trailing. I muted the TV and ushered Rodney up to bed. He took a final
sip of milk, then quietly said to himself "Go Bears." We trudged up the
stairs for bedtime.

The Bears lost last night. Maybe I jinxed them by watching the game,
just like I did to the Blackhawks in sixth grade. But apathy and
superstition doesn't excuse me from the fight. From what I've observed
all my life, being a Bears fan is fraught with heartbreak and
disappointments. But my family has chosen this path, and we walk
together. Fellow Bears fans, I'll see you Sunday at 3:25PM.

Go Bears.

  [terrible season]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2002%E2%80%9303_Chicago_Blackhawks_season#Regular_season

