---
title: firedrill, gravy, sleep, and handmaids
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning! We've made it to Friday, everyone. Yesterday was a good
day. I got lots of work done, tried a new sandwich place for lunch, and
made a pretty good dinner. We had a fire drill at work yesterday. I saw
the upcoming announcement and decided to create a little calendar event
so everyone could plan around it. Nate made me laugh because just before
the drill, he leaned in and asked with a very serious face "In the event
of a real fire, will you still put it on my calendar." Of course I
agreed. Fire or not, you got to keep the calendar up to date.

It's been a "heads down" kind of week at work, and I think I needed
that. It felt good to jump back into things, listen to music again,
clean up my notes, and take lots of quiet time.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee to pick up stuff to make
*saucijzenbroodjes*. We've gotten pretty good at that meal now, so it
usually turns out pretty great. And I say *we* because Rod helped. I'm
impressed with how much he's picking up, in some aspects he's genuinely
helpful. Yesterday he grabbed a basting brush out of the drawer while my
hands were still covered in raw beef. When we cut vegetables, we knows
how to empty the bowl of off-cuts into the garbage. And he also did a
pretty respectable job sprinkling the *broodjes* with sesame seeds.

I also learned yesterday that you can make gravy really quickly if you
need to. I had just filled the dishwasher and we were waiting for
everything to come out of the oven, when I suddenly remembered that I
forgot to make the gravy. I had even set aside a small amount of
leftover beef stock for this purpose. So I sent Rod upstairs to get mom
while I melted the butter, threw in flour, and added the stock. It was
ready five minutes later, along with everything else, and nobody was
none the wiser.

After dinner, Marissa graciously offered to put Rod to bed, so I made my
way to the couch. The long, productive week must have finally caught up
with me because I fell asleep watching YouTube videos. It felt good to
not move, and not think about anything for an hour.

I "sobered up" from the nap with a hot cup of tea, and Marissa made her
way downstairs so we could watch a few episodes of Handmaid's Tale.
Season 1 really turned a corner last night. We had been talking about
how difficult the first leg of the season was to get through. It felt
about as bleak as Game of Thrones, only with the shock and horror
cranked way up. But last night's episodes we watched started to get
interesting, a little more hopeful, and some character development is
really happening now. I figured it was only a matter of time that things
started to work out for Offred. "Why else would they invest so much in
making us feel depressed for her. If they never gave her a win, that
would be completely wasted investment," Marissa and I discussed.

It's a difficult show to get through. The episodes are long, and there's
a lot of horrible themes. But it's keeping us interested - I'd say so
far it's a solid *B*.

Today, Marissa, Rod, and I are going to grab lunch somewhere on the
square. Maybe we'll try the sandwich place I went to yesterday, or maybe
we'll feel like sitting somewhere familiar and having a beer. After
work, we're going to make a pizza, then I'm going to try to convince the
family to sit outside by the fire and enjoy the cool night.

Hope you all have a wonderful weekend.

