---
title: kanye, movies, and pictures
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Saturday. Hope you're taking it slow this
morning. The entry is a little late because I slept in, and I also
decided that making French toast was a bigger priority. Now that
breakfast is out of the way, and Rodney is content watching Blue's Clues
on the couch, I'm free to write.

I also had to catch up on chores this morning - wiping down the
counters, starting another load of dishes, and cleaning up after Friday
night pizza. All things that I normally do on Friday night, but last
night I got sucked into all the hype and drama leading up to a new Kanye
Album. For the last few weeks, there have been rumors floating around
that he's getting ready to release a gospel album called *Jesus Is
King*. He even tweeted a picture of the track list and a date - 9/27.
I've been following Kanye for a while now, and I've learned that only
about half the albums that he announces actually get released, and the
name of the album usually changes a few times too. So last night I was
counting on his release date falling through. Then, while browsing
reddit, I noticed people freaking out about a listening party in
Detroit. Despite the concert being very closely monitored, a few leaks
got out and once I heard them, I knew it was the real deal. Before I
knew it, I was falling down the rabbit hole, studying every piece of
gossip that rolled out of Detroit's Fox theater. First, it was rumored
to be released at 8PM… then 9PM (8PM Chicago time)… then 11PM. Soon, Kim
announced on her Instagram that the album was being pushed to Sunday.

So mission accomplished, Kanye West. You've whipped me into a frenzy
over a fake release date, and now you have my close attention. Hey, at
least the next alleged release date is on, of all days, my golden
birthday. That's pretty cool. And even if the album still doesn't drop,
how many people that you know can say "Kanye West ruined my golden
birthday"? Not many I imagine.

Defeated and albumless, I packed up the pizza leftovers and joined
Marissa on the back porch. We quietly listened to some Kanye and
chatted, talking about his past albums and where we thought this next
album was going to take him. It actually got a little heated - Kanye is
one of those artists that digs into your personal life. His albums get
wrapped up with your memories, and the music is almost seasoned with
what you were going through at that time in your life. If you're not
careful, telling another Kanye fan "I disagree with how you feel about
that album" almost comes across as a personal jab. That's the mark of a
good artist, right?

Marissa and I headed inside to watch a movie. It was my pick, and I went
with the very under-appreciated gem [Be Kind Rewind]. I first saw this
movie in high school while spending the night at a friends house. The
marketing made it look like yet another silly Jack Black movie, but it's
actually a pretty thoughtful & touching flick about a town trying to
protect their legacy. And if it helps, the movie is only about 30% Jack
Black. Mos Def and Danny Glover are also a cool touch. We had about a
third left of the movie before we decided to turn in for the night.

This morning, Rod and I are holding down the fort while Marissa and the
dogs head to Milwaukee for another agility trial. She just left a minute
ago. Beforehand, we snapped a few pictures of some very large, beautiful
paintings she's about to ship off. I always imagine how weird it must be
seeing me, unshowered and greasy from cooking breakfast, standing in the
front yard taking pictures of a very put together Marissa in front of
her beautiful work. It's probably quite the contrast. Anyway, she just
took off, now it's just me and the Rod man. After journaling, I'm going
to put his laundry away, then we're going to shower up and walk to the
grocery store, picking up lunch along the way. There's a bar in Atwood
that allows dogs, and today might be a good day to scope it out and pick
up a bite to eat. After we get home, I'll probably put him down for a
nap, get ready for dinner, and then stay on this Kanye gossip.

Hope you all have a wonderful Saturday.

  [Be Kind Rewind]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J7C8nHAAs70

