---
title: coffee, ideas, and music
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! And happy Wednesday. I'm pleased to report that
the coffee situation here at home has returned to normal. We un-boxed
our fancy Hamilton Beach coffee maker last night. As I was opening it
up, I started to question why I went with the exact same \$20 model as
before - if you're getting something on Amazon you may as well shop
around, read the reviews, and see what's out there, right? Apparently I
don't. I think I even searched for the exact machine by make and model.
But maybe that's a good thing. There's a notch cut out at the end of our
coffee bar that fits one of these exactly, and what a scandal it would
be if I got a different machine that didn't fit there! But I played it
safe, I got the same model, it fits snugly in the notch, the french
press can go back to being a contemporary hipster decoration and I can
go back to just complaining about the beans. This week I went against my
better judgment and picked up some random "fair trade" coffee from the
Jenny Street market. I'm all for fair trade, but I'm suspicious of any
coffee in which that is the *only* thing they have to brag about.
Really? You're putting *that* front and center on the bag? No "premium
quality" or "established in 1985"? Not even one of those "J.D. Power &
Associates awards"?

This fair trade coffee was not even sold by the actual coffee. I bought
it by the keurigs and hot chocolate and other tangentially cafe-related
nonsense. In the back of the grocery store by the checkout, there's a
wall of real coffee beans, a bean grinder, and a lot of blends that I
recognize from local coffee shops, but I'm just a bit too shy to figure
out how it works. It looks like a big todo, asking the cashier to grind
it for you, telling them which blend you want and how much. I'm just
waiting until I hit my personal tipping point, where my discomfort
outweighs my shyness - my *activation energy*, if you want.

So I'm all out of journaling ideas. We're scraping the bottom of the
barrel, if you hadn't noticed. To add some content to these morning
journaling sessions, I jot down things I can talk about as they pop in
my head at work or while doing chores, and the list is almost empty.
*Almost*. I've been sitting on one bullet point for about a month now
and I just haven't worked it into our conversation, so instead of doing
this organically I'm just going to drop it in.

> Some days, I feel like if somebody put a gun to my head, I *might*
> admit that the only album I ever really need to survive is Beyonce's
> Homecoming Live album.

I took this down while I was doing the dishes, when I blast the more
energetic selections in my music library. Beyonce's [Homecoming: Live]
album is a frequent guest in the rotation. There's some dull spots, but
the first leg is really energetic and gets me really pumped up to clean
the kitchen. Sometimes I ask myself which album I'd take on a desert
island with me, and on any day of the week I'd answer *Blonde* by Frank
Ocean - with a secret copy of *Endless* burned on the opposite side of
the CD, but this random thought in my notes proves that for a few
seconds when the sink water gets hot and the Queen B starts bumping that
I briefly live in a universe where Beyonce is all I need. But I would
only admit this in dire circumstances. In the words of a good friend of
mine, Frank Ocean is my music collection's youngest child. Frank is the
baby of the family, and no matter what he does (or in his case, how
infrequently he makes music), he'll always be my favorite. Beyonce might
be my middle child. I don't have a lot in common with her, but I need
her around for balance. Kanye is my wayward eldest son. He embarrasses
me a lot, and I don't want to talk about what he's up to and what he's
saying, but at the end of the day I love his music and he'll always have
a place in my collection.

So there we go. That wasn't so hard, was it? It's equally daunting and
inspiring staring at an empty "ideas" section in my notes now that I
just let the last one fly. I'll try to be extra attentive to my thoughts
today so we can repopulate it. Otherwise I'll just end up using our time
together in the mornings to talk about all the intricacies of my morning
coffee routine.

I'm working from home today. Marissa's dog class was cancelled, so the
whole family is hanging around the house with me. We're thinking about
eating lunch at home, then going for a quick walk in the middle of the
day. Normally we eat out on Wednesday afternoon, but we've got some good
leftovers in the fridge, and we had better eat those before I add to the
chaos tonight. For dinner, we're going to attempt Korean BBQ beef, some
white rice, and if I'm feeling really crazy I'm going to make some
rangoons to go along with them. I can feel my fingers swelling from the
sodium already.

I hope you all have a wonderful day today. Thanks for reading, and I'll
see you tomorrow. Happy Wednesday!

  [Homecoming: Live]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homecoming:_The_Live_Album

