---
title: kidscode, tacobell, and contentment
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Friday. This morning it's dark outside.
Kind of eerie, kind of cozy. The ominous clouds and cool air are pretty
cool to wake up to.

Yesterday was a busy day. If you do them right, Thursdays should be
busy. It's really the gauntlet you have to run before the weekend. In
the morning I wrapped up some code I was working on and shoved it out to
our staging environment. I grabbed a chicken wrap from a food cart, then
hung out on the seventh floor while I made a lesson plan for kids code.
I riffed on some educational stuff about phishing attacks, then put
together a little tutorial for building your own nefarious login page. I
went for a short walk around the square, then I did some more research
stuff for a project we're starting next week. By four o'clock, I had
finished a pretty dense & productive work day, but it wasn't over yet. I
jumped on a bus and got home around five, having about a half hour to
hang around the house before I had to leave to set up for Kids Code.
Marissa was working on a painting outside, so we sat together on the
deck. I grabbed a bag of kettle corn to tide me over until dinner. We
caught up, I got Rod up from his nap, then I trotted over to the library
to set up.

Our Kids Code session went really well. We had a great turnout, and even
though nobody worked on the *DIY phishing scam* I planned, we still had
a great time working on scratch games. In hindsight, young kids probably
don't come across phishing scams as often. It occurred to me that kids
don't have any credit cards, and if you don't have any credit, there's
no reason for a scammer to be interested. On top of that, spam filters
are generally pretty advanced now. Back when I first got an email, all
that stuff used to actually make it to my inbox, and I had to read the
message and determine for myself if it was from a scammer. All in all,
the kids probably had no idea what I was talking about.

As we were packing up, I got a notification from my phone that an event
called "Take a Nap" was starting in ten minutes. I chuckled, remembering
how tired I was when I made the event that morning. Funny story, I
didn't actually take a nap. I was pretty wired from the busy day, so
instead I walked to taco bell to pick up a late dinner, then ate it on
the couch with the dogs and watched YouTube videos. Sometimes "me time"
is just as relaxing as a nap, if not even more relaxing. For me, taco
bell especially is the ultimate indulgence. Eating taco bell is
completely unconscious. Chewing the hot cheese and buttery tortilla just
empties my brain, and it turns into this weird, gluttonous form of
meditation.

Side note: if you're wondering, the correct way to eat taco bell is to
let it get cold in the fridge, then microwave it in the wrapper until
it's pretty much melted into itself. It's like a completely different
meal.

After eating, I grabbed my laptop and hacked a bit on my website code. I
finished breaking out some of the statistics. Word count now accounts
for both public & private posts, as do "streaks" and "dry spells". But
now that all the data is there, I think it looks too busy, and sometime
this weekend I'm probably going to move things around again.

So back to here. Friday morning, sitting in the dark drinking a now cold
cup of coffee. Right now, I'm feeling pretty content. This weekend is
just a lot of hanging out, relaxing, coding, cooking, and I'm going to
go out on a limb and assume I'm getting one or two neat birthday
presents this weekend. I think it's going to be a good weekend. Ah, and
next week is wedding week! My little sister is getting married. All that
rigamarole begins for us on Thursday, so I even get a shorter work week
out of it too.

Hope you all have a wonderful Friday, and a wonderful weekend. Hope you
spend time relaxing, whether that's taking naps or eating taco bell in
front of the TV. You do you. Thanks for reading.

