---
title: squash, movies, sauce, and giraffes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Sunday, especially to those who also
decided to sleep in. I feel like I've been sleeping extra hours all
weekend, waking up around 8:30 yesterday and pushing into the 9 range
this morning. I must be subconsciously priming my body to deal with
daylight savings time. By the way, our clocks go back one hour exactly
one week from now, so look alive out there.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. Marissa was at an agility trial
all day with Ziggy, to the Rod, Ollie, and I held down the fort all day.
We heated up some leftovers for lunch, walked to the grocery store, then
cooked our first butternut squash soup. I was pretty blown away at how
easy it was, especially considering how strange the squash is to work
with. It was also very perilous to cut into, and I was grateful I had a
sharp knife and things went smoothly. After the squash was halfed, it
went into a roasting pan with some onions and carrots. It was fun to
take out the roasting pan again - the last time I had seen it was while
making a ham for easter. While the vegetables were roasting, I made
bacon bits, and then just for kicks I also cooked some cashews in butter
and rosemary. The smell of toasted nuts, herb butter, crispy bacon, and
simmering soup filled the house when Marissa got home in the evening,
and I was at peak fall-themed cooking snobbery. In fact, just for extra
points I made sure the *Fall* EP by Jon Foreman was playing when we sat
down to eat.

After dinner, Marissa put Rod to bed, then we finished watching
Marissa's pick, the temple of doom. While it was a far better choice
than our last movie, *The Last Kiss*, the *Temple of Doom* was really
stressful to watch. It was like they fit three Indiana Jones movies into
one, making it as dense with action as they could. "This movie is like a
coked out version of *Raiders of the Lost Ark*," I complained. "That's
very possible, this came out in the 80's. Everyone was probably doing
coke," Marissa added. "Look at how much is happening on the screen!" I
yelled. "How could you possibly even summarize what happened in this
movie? It's non-stop problems & anxiety. This movie is basically the
*Polar Express*"

After the movie, we took a short quesadilla break to let our heart rates
drop back down to normal. Marissa and I chit chatted in the kitchen
while we waited for the cast iron skillet to heat. I rifled through our
cabinet, carefully selecting three or four hot sauces I wanted to sample
with my quesadilla. "We don't have any good plates to sample hot sauce
with," I griped. Marissa laughed, "What exactly are you looking for?" "I
don't know," I whined. "I like to taste just a few drops from each, but
I don't want them to mix together." Marissa flashed a smile and flew
down the stairs into the basement. A few moments later she returned,
holding a plastic paint pallet. "This would be perfect. I used to use
these for water color, but I don't do that as much anymore. You can have
this one." The idea was hilarious, but so perfect and practical. I added
a few drops of hot sauce in each little dimple and stacked a few wedges
of quesadilla in the middle. "This is genius," I declared. I was like
the Bob Ross of hot sauces.

We settled in on the couch again and watched some of Paul Rudd's new
show, *Living with Yourself*. We have one episode left, but as long as
the stick the ending, it's already one of our favorite shows. I've said
it before, and I'll say it again now - everything Paul Rudd touches is
gold. If anything, this show has taught me that there was room for
improvement in *every* Paul Rudd movie or tv show - he could have been
playing *two* parts instead of only one.

This morning, Marissa is getting ready for another agility trial this
morning. Rodney and I are hoping to shower, go grocery shopping, and
return in time to watch the Bears game at noon. Between breaks and after
the game, we're going to make some pizza. Rodney also wants to go to the
park. His stuffed giraffe has a cough, and he thinks the fresh air would
be good for him. If you think about it, having a kneck that big, there's
probably a lot that can go wrong, and a giraffe sized soar throat must
be pretty painful. If you are friends with Baby Giraffe on Facebook or
LinkedIn, please send along your best wishes, this is a tough one.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. Watch the Bears Game, eat
pizza, and take care of the stuffed baby giraffe in your family.

