---
title: weather, goodfood, cheesesteak, software, and tv
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! I love a weekend as much as the next guy, but it
felt nice to get back to work yesterday. It stayed pretty rainy and
cloudy throughout all the day, which made it really easy to focus on
getting work done. We're creatures of our environment, aren't we? It's
funny how something as simple as the weather can influence how we work -
even indoors.

For lunch, I went for a quick walk to go take out some cash. I needed
bus fare for the ride home, and yesterday morning I had to borrow some
from Rodney's piggy bank. Later I laughed with Marissa about how strange
it felt to steal money out of a child's piggy bank, taking great care
not to wake him up with the sound of jangling coins. I imagined I owed
money to a bookie, or I was about to go hit a casino. But I didn't -
Rodney knows I'm good for it. By the end of the day I paid him back with
interest.

For lunch, I grabbed a chicken wrap from the Good Food cart. Their name,
which really is *Good Food*, makes it hard to rave about them. Can you
picture it? "Hey that looks pretty good, what are you eating Alex?"
*Good Food*. "Um OK. Yeah it does look good." But the name is literally
the only bad thing about the *Good Food* cart.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee to pick up stuff for philly cheese
steaks. I love the kind of meals that come together from economical
ingredients. To my delight, this recipe called for about a pound of
regular low-end sirloin. I only had to buy one steak, sandwich rolls,
and a few other things we like having in the house anyway, like cream
cheese, kimchi, and a white onion.

When we got home, I put Rodney to work on the buns. I don't think he
quite grasped that I wanted him to hollow out the inside of the sandwich
rolls, but he seemed to enjoy himself just moving the bread crumbs from
one bowl to another. Meanwhile, I was searing the steak in some olive
oil, admiring my big stainless steel pan in its element. I gave the
steak a good sear, then moved in some chopped white onions to cook
around and under the meat. After letting the steak cool, I cut it up
into small pieces and tossed it with the cooked onions, cream cheese,
kimchi, and shredded provolone. Rodney was still working on the bread
crumbs, but he helped himself to plenty of shredded provolone right off
the cutting board, and I couldn't yell at him because I do the same. We
stuffed the sandwiches with meat filling then topped with more cheese.
They baked for about fifteen minutes. Being a Philly native, I let Ziggy
eat the little bit of filling left in the mixing bowl. That's only fair,
right?

After wolfing down the cheese steak sandwiches, we caught up around the
dinner table. Marissa and Rod had a pretty cozy day too. Marissa just
got a pretty big art commission for a company in California, so she's
been pretty busy holding it down for Astuary Art. Rod watched TV, played
with toys, and read books.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa worked in the shop a little longer and
I cleaned up the kitchen before working a bit on the upcoming class
reunion. In "potluck" style, I made a list of things to bring and
created a Google form to help people fill it out. I hadn't looked at the
Google office suite in a while, but my word has it gotten good! I was
impressed with how well Forms integrates with sheets. I chuckled
thinking of all the college assignments I bungled, limping by most of my
college career on pirated versions of excel, creating multiple copies of
the same spreadsheet, handing out my dropbox password to everyone in my
study group. Seeing all the new web based tools available for students
almost makes me want to go back and do college again. *Almost*.

We concluded the evening by finally checking out *The Handmaid's Tale*.
We were pretty impressed! The whole dystopian America thing is very
creeping, as it's compelling. Over the hour long first episode, it was
so much fun to mentally piece together the rules of their backwards
society. We have two whole seasons to watch, so it looks like we're
going to be busy.

So that's our time together. Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday
today. It looks like the weather will be much warmer today, so the Fall
delusion is over for now. Today, go for a walk, eat some *Good Food*,
and get your work done.

