---
title: new computers, pork chops with soup, and dumb jokes at home depot
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. You're probably
getting ready for the day, sitting in traffic, or maybe even already
sitting at your desk at work, but I'm lucky enough to be beginning my
long weekend. After I finish this journal entry, we're going to pack the
car, I'm going to take a quick shower, then we're going to make our way
to Chicago in time more me to leave with my dad to go to the tailgate.

I'm pretty excited. Not only to I get to hang out today, drink some
beer, and maybe even eat some barbecue, but on top of it all, it's game
day. And after tonight, we'll know if the Bears really have a chance in
the playoffs, or if all this momentum is just delusional fumes from
beating a really a really beatable team late in the season.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. I went into the office, and since most
people work from home on Wednesdays, it was a quiet day. I had plenty of
time to finish my work for the week, and then even clean up some of my
local configs. The other day, my work told me that anyone with a laptop
older than three years old can request an upgrade, and mine is going on
four. So I'm starting to get things cleaned up so I can turn it in and
start afresh. If anything, maybe be a little less liberal with the
stickers this time. For some reason, it's totally expected in my line of
work that you plaster hundreds of stickers on the front of your
expensive Macbook, and even though that fad has always puzzled me, I
went along with it. I haven't decided if I'm going to do that again.
Yes, over time it looks tacky, but it does make it easier to identify
your laptop in a line-up.

Speaking of new laptops, Marissa's new chromebook just arrived in the
mail. She went with a Lenovo Yogabook. The screen is much bigger and
brighter in person. Sitting on your lap, it almost feels a bit like a
slimmed down gaming laptop. Yesterday she was telling me about how good
it felt to finally sit down with your own computer and catch up on email
and other online chores. We had a shared dining room computer in the
meantime, but being able to multi-task on the couch is a big win for
her, and I can relate.

After I caught the bus home, Marissa and I went to Hy-Vee to pick up
dinner. I had a loose idea for making potato and leak soup with a side
of pork chops, so we grabbed a stalk of leaks, a few potatoes, and some
pork. These days, I'm trying to get into cooking without recipes, and
potato leak soup felt like a good place to start. Like all soups, it
began with butter and onions, then chicken broth and some other herbs,
and finally the potatoes. Once the potatoes tenderized, I carefully
dumped the soup into a blender. I knew luck was on my side for this
recipe because it filled the blender exactly to the top. The broth,
leaks, and tender potatoes came together in a gentle slurry, and I
dumped it back into my dutch oven for seasoning.

As the soup finished, I seasoned two thick pork chops and cooked them in
butter. Pork, like poultry, normally makes me nervous. I think I have a
mild case of undercooked-meat-a-phobia, but the other day I watched a
YouTube video that was pretty helpful and started to give me peace of
mind. It turns out that the "safe temperature" for cooking meat
published by the FDA usually corresponds with the temperature you need
to kill all the bacteria in a substance *instantly*. The video host
showed a line graph, temperature against time to sterilize, and for
chicken, all the bacteria was killed in just under a second at 165. "But
at 130 or 140, you can still get there," he explained. "It just might
take a few extra minutes."

I think if I had to explain it, cooking meat to safe temperature is not
an active process. It would be different if you could zap each bacterium
with a tiny microscope mounted machine gun, but it's more like
manipulating probability. If you raise the temperature to the point
where 99 out of every 100 bacteria die every minute, then after about 10
minutes you are either left with no bacteria or one very, very lucky
bacteria who is ready to party in your pork chop. And at a certain
point, you can't live your life counting on being that lucky.

Dinner was a success. I took the pork chops out of the herb butter at
140F and let them coast up to temperature under some tinfoil. I toasted
some sliced bread for the top of the soup, and since I was feeling very
fancy, I garnished with some snipped leaks.

Marissa and I ate dinner, then jumped in the car to run a quick errand
at home depot. She had to buy some materials to make a sign for her art
gallery. While grabbing the wood, she flagged down an employee to help
cut the two wood sheets to size. "Our saw is broken," the employee said.
"That thing breaks at least once a month," Marissa grumbled under her
breath to me.

We checked out at the front. A straight faced employee reluctantly
scanned the items in our cart. "Sorry we weren't able to cut this for
you," the lady murmured as she reached around the cart with the scanner.
"It's OK," I replied. "We're just going to use a sword." The lady
chortled, then after thinking about the joke for another second, erupted
in laughter. "I have been trying to get on that lady's good side for a
while now," Marissa said as we were walking back to the car. "I can't
believe it only took you one joke."

"And a stupid joke, at that." I added.

That's what I got today. It's probably high time to pack the car. I'm
excited to see my family, I'm excited to see the Bears play, and
probably most of all, I'm excited to pick up my son from Grandma and
Grandpa's house. I hope you all have a wonderful day today. Bear down!

