---
title: palmiers, tv, coffee, and planning
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a pretty good day. I think we definitely made the most of
the long weekend. We ate breakfast on the back porch, ran some errands,
and worked outside. I finally got around to cleaning the grill. After
putting Rod to bed, I decided to try baking another batch of palmiers. I
was very meticulous this time about rolling the puff pastry thinly onto
parchment paper and thoroughly covering them with sugar. But when it
came time to form the hearts, it became very clear that the dimensions
were way off. The cookies are supposed to bake with these gentle
folded-over layers (about three of them). But I started with a piece of
pastry that was way too big, which made a cookie that had several very
small folds, and by the time they were done they looked like little
baskets of worms, or a diagram of small intestines.

Puff pastry can be so cruel. I'm slowly learning that things that look
pretty going into the oven don't always look pretty coming out after
they're baked. I guess beginner's luck was at play here - since my first
try at these cookies turned out great, I thought I was invincible -
before I pulled the twisted mayhem out of the oven last night.

As a joke, I took all the terrible burnt off cuts and put them in nice
pastry dish underneath a towel; then I asked Marissa to take a picture
of them for Instagram. I got a good, cheap laugh out of her when she
removed the towel with her camera ready. I was planning on saving face
and acting like I was proud of them, but I broke character and we had a
good laugh.

Once I was done burning sugar in the kitchen, we made our way to the
living room to watch some TV. As of last night, we're marching on with
*Handmaid's Tale*. After finishing three episodes, just before heading
up to bed Marissa broke the morose silence and asked, "Can we stop
watching this?" "Yeah I'm so sick of this show," I laughed. There's
nothing like the instant relief of deciding not to watch a show any
more. How liberating! So probably as of tonight, we're going back to
re-watching New Girl. Sorry, *Handmaid's Tale*. You had your moments,
but you just weren't good enough for how sad you are. And I'm tired of
having weird dreams about kidnapping and fascism. I think it's also
making me stress eat. To cope with last night's episode binge, I stress
ate almost the whole bowl of joke palmiers I set aside. And this morning
it feels like a group of radical fundamentalists established a fascist
theocracy inside my stomach.

It feels good to drink coffee. Marissa and I finally bought a blade
grinder, and now we're enjoying the freshly ground stuff. We were saving
up for a nice burr grinder, and at some point we must have just given up
on it and continued to buy pre-ground beans. Then one day the thought
crossed my head that we could probably get a really good blade grinder
for a fraction of the money we'd spend on an average burr grinder. So we
pulled the trigger, and now there's no looking back. It's a wonderful
little blade grinder. It supports different settings, but what really
takes the cake is that it that you don't have to sit there and hold the
button - it will finish the grind for you. And it doesn't look like an
eye soar either. It's small and sleek, like a little robot in the
corner.

This week will be all about planning the high school reunion, which is
happening this Saturday. It's weird planning it all through email - it's
hard to tell if I'm not doing enough or doing too much. So I'm just
trying to make sure we have the basics - a place, a time, some people,
and food. Oh, and beer. That probably completes the "stand around
awkwardly" survival kit. But that's a worst case scenario, I think it's
going to go great and we're going to have a wonderful time.

That's my time. I hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday. As a closing
thought, if you too are stuck watching a TV show that's just not quite
good enough to warrant feeling sad all the time, don't be afraid to
break things off. Just unapologetically say "I don't want to watch
this!" And then watch New Girl instead.

