---
title: computers, cars, and leftovers
---

Dear Journal,

This week, I'm hoping to get started on building a new computer. Well, I
should say *rebuilding*. The computer has been sitting in the basement
for a few years, but I'm going to relocate it to the upstairs wall and
mount the parts on plexiglas. The downstairs computer has served us
well. We bought it when Marissa was interested in doing graphic design,
since she would need a machine powerful enough to run the adobe suit,
but it quickly turned into just another computer for video games. We had
both of our PCs set up in the upstairs bedroom on a long table she made
from wood reclaimed from a bowling alley. It looked cool, but it was
impractically heavy, and truth be told every time I sat at the table I
feared that it would snap and crush my legs.

Like I said, it was supposed to be a workstation, but eventually we just
used it for video games. Marissa and I used to sit at the table and play
Counter Strike. We had headsets and everything, and we were pretty good
- we could usually hold our own in a match.

Eventually I got sick of owning a PC. I was craving a little more
minimalism in my work station, and a giant glowing, flashing, whirring
box just wasn't cutting it. My PC was a lot older - I bought it the
summer after graduating college entirely with graduation money. I really
didn't know what I was doing, so I just went as high end as possible.
After we got rid of my computer, there was little reason to keep
Marissa's in our bedroom, so we moved it downstairs. There, sitting on a
concrete floor, it's been faithfully running a plex server. Occasionally
I play video games on it, streaming from my upstairs raspberry pi.

This week, I'm hoping to take it apart, measure everything, and start
planning a wall build. I haven't looked inside Marissa's old PC in a
while, so there could be some surprises waiting. Some parts look good
mounted on a wall no matter what - like a motherboard or an SSD, but for
all I know the power source could be a giant, hot gray box that looks so
awkward on plexiglass that I reconsider the whole thing.

All the computers in my room are a work in progress. The PI workstation
and the wall mounted router were huge improvements, all to the end of
having a reliable home network that's easy to rewire and access.

Ambitious home network plans aside, this week is pretty normal. Back in
the office today after a relaxing weekend filled with cooking, cartoons,
and good beer. This morning I'm dropping off our car so we can finally
get the AC fixed. Rodney has been a good sport about it, and he doesn't
mind having all the windows open, but sitting at stoplights or being
stuck in traffic is pretty brutal.

After work, we're all going to Hy-Vee to stock up on some miscellaneous
things, then we're going home to heat up dinner. Tonight's dinner is
100% locally sourced leftovers. We've got chicken, potatoes,
saucijzenbroodjes, a few slices of pizza, and just to round everything
off I'm going to make a dutch baby for dessert.

Let's have a Monday!

