---
title: emotions, blame, rigatoni, and football
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. Before I jumped in
the shower, I checked the weather, and it's looks like it's supposed to
be another chilly day. Hopefully we get some more snow on the ground
before heading into the holiday season. The older I get, I find it
harder and harder to summon enthusiasm for the Christmas spirit. I love
seeing family, getting time off work, and of course getting gifts from
people, but everything else about Christmas is on thin ice with me. This
year, a little bit of snow on the ground could help its case against me.
And now that I'm delving into dangerous *humbug* territory - not wanting
to out myself as a staunch Christmas hater, I had better change the
subject.

I did some more reading in my Difficult Conversations book yesterday.
After cleaning up from diner, I rolled into bed and finished the second
of four sections. I read about emotions, how they should affect
confrontations, and how we can better understand them. I found the
conversation stimulating and enlightening. Just between you and me,
reader, these Harvard nerds really know their stuff. One of the things
the authors discussed was how the tendency to blame other things for a
problem is usually a clue that you are holding onto unexpressed
emotions. This struck a chord with me, and it actually caused me to get
up and crack open my anger journal. Luckily, I haven't had a new entry
in a number of weeks, with a close call being the big microwaved frozen
polish sausage scandal of last Sunday. Blame was a common theme. The
word "blame" appeared at least once in every entry. The discovery caused
me to stare into space, replaying how I felt when I cut open one of the
polish sausages last Sunday and beheld the cold, pink center. I wanted
to blame the recipe video I watched on YouTube. I wanted to blame
Marissa for buying the wrong sausages. I wanted to blame Rodney for
distracting me by playing in the sink pretending to help me cook.

Something else the book talked about was the skill of negotiating with
your feelings. My emotions have always been a black and white
battlefield, but according to the book, your perception of a situation
is subjective, and if emotions arise from your perception, then they
would have to be subjective as well, right? The authors used spotting a
shark as an example. If you were swimming in the deep ocean and you
spotted a shark swimming towards you, you might feel scared and anxious,
and your emotions will take over and tell you to either hold still or
swim backwards as quickly as possible.

But if you were a trained marine biologist instead of a mere casual
swimmer, you might spot the shark and recognize it as a whale shark,
assuring yourself you are in no danger and the little guy is just
sniffing around for some krill or squid. Suddenly your perception of the
situation changes and those emotions magically dissipate.

As we climb the entries of my anger journal, it appears I was already
starting to figure out how to negotiate with my emotions. In these
entries, I challenge my need to blame things. For example, when I felt
the need to blame Marissa for buying the wrong sausages, I reminded
myself that she was unsure about them, and upon showing them to me after
getting home from the store I said aloud "those will work - I'll cut 'em
in half so they can fit on a hot dog bun." And if she had really bought
the wrong kind of sausages, wouldn't I have recognized it then? Or would
I at least share the blame in signing off on them as well? Maybe I
should have moved them from the freezer to the fridge a little sooner.
So those are my reading reflections thus far. Next reading session goes
into how difficult conversations can impact your identity.

Sobering reflections aside, yesterday was a pretty great & easy day. I
had meetings most of the day, and I cut work early so we could go take a
family photo on Barb's farm. So if we're still pretending this week is
the pre-holiday gauntlet, this must also be the smallest gauntlet to
have ever been thrown. We drove to Barb's place, took some photos
outside in their yard, then head inside their dog training facility to
let the dogs burn off some energy. Marissa talks often about how fun it
is to watch Ollie and Ziggy open the throttle in a big area, and
witnessing it first hand was a treat. I love the way dogs let their
tongue flop out of their mouth to gain more speed, as if it's a
performance tradeoff.

I dozed off for about twenty minutes as Marissa drove back, and on the
way home, letting Rodney continue sleeping in the car, I ran into Hy-Vee
to pick up dinner. I made pork rigatoni, which is really starting to
climb the ranks in terms of meals I enjoy cooking. I render the fat out
of some pancietta, toss in lemon zest, sliced garlic, tomato paste, and
oregano, then dump in the sauce - remembering to rince the bottle with a
little bit of water. Then I cook the sauce down a bit to taste. I reduce
the heat, add some butter, then when the pasta is barely cooked, I drain
it, sneaking away some of the pasta water for later. I let the rigatoni
sit in the sauce for a few minutes, then add pasta water and grated
parmesan, which turns into a pretty seductive looking and smelling
cheese sauce. As a finishing touch, I throw in a fist full of chopped
parsley and let it sit for just a few more minutes. Chopped parsley in
pasta might be one of my favorite things in the universe.

After dinner, I had some chores to do, as well as some holiday related
stuff. The last part of my gift from my Bears subreddit secret santa
arrived, so I had to snap a pic of all the gifts together and write a
quick Internet thank-you. Along with a hat for Rodney, he bought me a
pair of sweatpants as well as a Bears themed tequila glass. And having
just lost to the Packers last Sunday, there was an obvious joke in the
implied theme of cozy self-loathing and drinking.

Before I sign off, here's another observation. Football makes it way
easier to talk to strangers. Football is the great equalizer, and a
powerful white noise that can overcome any shyness or awkward
conversations.

That's what I got today. I hope you have a wonderful day today, and as
always, thanks for reading.

