---
title: burgers, chores, interns, and vancouver
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a bit of a rough one. I had a pretty busy day at work,
bouncing from one thing to another, and I didn't get any writing done. I
still have today and tomorrow to finish the intern blog, but the way I
see it, most of it probably has to get done this afternoon, so coming
down to the wire.

After work, I took Rod to Hy-Vee and we picked up some burgers. Marissa
was in the mood for something easy, so I just grabbed some pre-made
burger patties and buns. After starting the grill and cutting up the
toppings, we all hung out outside to enjoy the charcoal smell. Somehow,
I pulled the burgers off the grill just a bit early, and I had already
gone on to add the toppings, so I couldn't throw them back on. Luckily
none of us got really sick, but the meal didn't sit right in my stomach,
and I could tell that Rod wasn't sleeping well. I stuck his burger in
the microwave for a whole minute to finish cooking it, but maybe it was
the grease or something.

Messing up dinner is a crummy feeling, isn't it? For how happy it can
make you feel watching people get up from the table for seconds or wolf
down leftovers late at night, there's an equal and opposite reaction
when your food makes people sick.

I spent about an hour cleaning up the kitchen. On Tuesday's I move
everything off the counter tops and Windex everything, then I sweep the
floor. It was also knife sharpening day. Once a month, I sharpen our six
nicest knives with a whetstone. I run them through the dishwasher again
to make sure there are no metal filings around, then rub the wood
cutting board down with mineral oil.

It felt good to sort of lose myself in kitchen chores yesterday. I liked
having time to think and collect myself after a busy day and a botched
dinner. After chores, I sat on the couch with Marissa and watched some
TV. I perused my usual YouTube channels to stock up on recipe ideas.
After tonight's burger mishap, I could use a good comeback. Later in the
evening, Marissa got up to heat up some leftover fried fish from
yesterday, so I got to have that warm feeling after all.

Today is a busy morning. On Wednesdays I meet with each of the interns
for some 1-on-1 time, asking them about their week, getting feedback, or
just chit-chatting. Those 1-on-1s lead right into a farewell intern
lunch. After lunch, I'm probably going to hide out in a quiet room and
knock out some writing.

While sipping coffee just now, I got to staring at our computer
wallpaper. I set up a little program on our dining room computer that
randomly changes the wallpaper every fifteen minutes, sourcing the
choices from a folder that I filled up with random pictures. Marissa
even added a bunch yesterday too. Right now it's set to a picture I took
off the back porch of the place we stayed at in Vancouver. We have a few
pics from up right against the railing, but this one is just a shot from
my chair by the sliding glass door, and all you can see is my knees in
front of a few feet of concrete. You can still see the beautiful city,
but it's behind the railing, which runs up the rest of the picture.
Marissa and I were too spooked to hang out right up against the waist
high metal railing - it was just too high and the railing was too
flimsy. I like this picture because it really captures the sentiment of
the trip. Vancouver was a beautiful city, but unexpectedly gritty and a
little dangerous, and we had to experience it with just a bit of
hesitation.

Time to get going. Hope you all have a wonderful day today. If you too
messed up last night's dinner, don't sweat it. Just keep your cutting
board clean, your knives sharp, and try again tonight.

Let's have a Wednesday!

