---
title: weather, tea, letters, flowers, and anger
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. This morning I'm
taking my time winding up for the morning, enjoying the coffee. Black
Cat Espresso was a hit with Marissa, so I bought another bag, and I
think I finally figured out how to brew it well. I just had to use
slightly more beans than I would for any other coffee - that seems to
have pushed it over the edge and made it a great cup of coffee.

Yesterday was a great day. Leaving the house after ranting about
Marissa's infamous salad put me in a great mood. It didn't rain nearly
as much as I expected, so wearing just a rain pancho, I was starting to
regret my outfit choice. Yesterday, I was dressed for Monday's weather,
and on Monday I was dressed for yesterday's weather - if that makes any
sense.

Dressing for climate is hard, isn't it? Especially if you live in the
Midwest. I wish I could just wear the same thing every day, but you have
to live somewhere really temperate to do that, don't you? I'd like to
see Steve Jobs wear one of his black turtlenecks and weird jeans in
Madison in the summer. Or in Madison during the winter. A thin black
turtleneck would be a poor choice for both. If you wear the same thing
every day, you're not a genius. The way I see it, you either live in
California, or you're an idiot.

I had a much more normal day of work. After morning stand-up, my
coworker brewed some Chinese green tea for us all to try. I didn't mind
sacrificing a cup of coffee - it's all just caffeine anyway. We stood in
the kitchen watching her skillfully steep the tea leaves in hot water,
decanting it into our coffee stained mugs.

For lunch, I heated up my hutspot. I had been thinking about it all
morning, especially since I was under-dressed for the cold. I also
brought a saucijzenbroodje, cramming it into the tupperware between the
cabbage and the lid. On Monday, I was running behind on dinner, so
rather than crimping the remaining meat into a neat little log, I just
flopped it down in the middle of some puff pastry and pinched it closed
- like some kind of weird Dutch ravioli. But puff pastry looks gorgeous
after you bake it, no matter what shape it's in, and the lazy meat
pastry monstrosity looked like a very thoughtful variation of a sausage
roll.

I slinked away to the seventh floor eating area with my lunch and my
laptop. Sometime that day, we would get the official map from the
surveyor so we could mail a copy to my neighbor, and I wanted to write a
cover letter. I wasn't looking to stoke anything new. It was just a
courteous little bow to tie on this crummy property line dispute, and
hopefully conclude it. I think perhaps in a parallel universe, I'm
making a living writing legal documents for people, if that job even
exists. Sometimes I get carried away with flowery *legaleze*, but I have
just as much of a right to be an armchair lawyer as anyone else, don't
I? When I was done, I sent the letter to Marissa for review. I made sure
to include my usual wildly inappropriate and outlandish "PS" section
where I end the letter in the worst way possible. I couldn't help
myself. I made sure to delete my joke postscript before Marissa could
print it.

As I got onto the bus, I got a message from Marissa warning me that Rod
was in a pretty bad mood. "No problem," I responded. "We'll screw around
at Hy-Vee for a bit, then I'll try to keep him in the kitchen." Whatever
had been bothering him all day must have worn off after a good nap. He
was still sleeping when I got home, and was pretty agreeable as I woke
him up, got his socks on, and put him in the car.

I try to chat with Rodney when we drive to the grocery store. I can
usually hold his attention for a few seconds before he sees an ambulance
or an excavator, and acknowledging those as we drive by takes precedence
over small talk. "How was your day today, dude?" I asked from the front
seat, turning down the music. "Vriblllrblrrib glib sfffverlish bita…
Mama mad. Mama mad," Rodney replied. Rodney's a good talker, but at this
stage he has to warm up each sentence with a few syllables of babbling,
which we've started doing ourselves too - I think everyone should try
talking that way. "Yeah? I heard you guys had some problems today…" I
replied. "DADA. LOOK. EXCAVATOR," yelled Rodney. And at that, small talk
with Dad concluded.

We picked up ingredients for cream of chicken and wild rice soup. We
were moving quickly, having lost a lot of time in traffic. Rod picked up
on my urgency and remained helpful. I ripped off a piece of bread for
him, and he sat on the bottom lip of the cart and nibbled on it
contently. Just before we pulled into a checkout lane, we decided to
swing by the flowers and pick some up for Mom. "I know you probably
already said 'sorry', dude, but sometimes some surprise flowers can help
smooth things over," I explained. I was speaking from experience.

Rodney proudly presented the flowers to Mom while I unpacked the
groceries and prepped for dinner. "Rodney is out of the doghouse," we
joked. Marissa went back downstairs to work, and Rodney and I got to
making dinner. We chopped the veggies together at the counter, then he
got bored and asked if he could watch Blippi. "Sure, dude - I have to
cut the chicken now anyway," I replied. And there's no good way to tag
team slicing chicken thighs with a toddler. That has to be among the top
five worst learning activities. Rodney plopped on the couch with his
juice, I hit shuffle on our 100 hours of saved Blippi episodes, and I
returned to making dinner.

As we ate, we talked about anger. It seemed like it was on everyone's
mind - mouthing off to mom during a morning dog agility outing, or
stewing about a crummy interaction with a neighbor that dredged up some
dormant bitterness.

After dinner, I watched a final episode of Blippi with Rodney on the
couch, then put him to bed. Lately his favorite book to read is this
very flimsy "spot the animal" book. It only has six pages. For all the
filibustering he does to prolong bedtime - tucking in each stuffed
animal and trying to draw my attention to the window - you'd think he
would pick a longer book, right?

I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa continued to work downstairs. We
reconvened on the couch around 11:30, having just enough time to finish
Raiders of the Lost Ark. Watching Indiana Jones has been such a delight.
For the last few days, Marissa and I have been swept away by how cool
this movie is, and we sheepishly admitted to each other that we've never
actually seen it. "I convinced myself that I've seen it, but I think
I've only watched the scene at the end where everyone's head explodes,"
I explained. Alert the newspapers - the Recker family approves of
*Raiders of the Lost Ark*.

It was midnight, and we didn't feel like going to bed just yet. I was
showing Marissa some movies I added to our plex server, and one of them
was "The Last Kiss" with Zach Braff and Rachel Bilson. "Why did you get
this," Marissa asked. "It was filmed in Madison," I eagerly explained.
"It was set there too, I think they're both supposed to be UW students,
and I heard there are lots of shots of the city." I thought it would be
fun to watch pretentious celebrities pretend to be humble Madisonians
like us. We watched twenty minutes of the movie, and while it opened
with a nice pan from our great capital building to a familiar Wisconsin
license plate, the remaining twenty minutes we watched was disgusting.
Really bad - even for Zach Braff. I paused the movie, looking at the
elapsed time in horror. "This is going to be a long one. Buckle in." Our
rules dictate that once we start watching a movie we own, we have to
finish it. Marissa reminded me that *Hitch* was my idea too.

The big question is - will it be worse than *Hitch*?

