---
title: sheds, pizza, and company
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Hope you're having a good Sunday so far. I just
finished a wave of dishes, and the house is slowing waking up. We're all
eating breakfast at the table now. You got to love later church. The
extra time to get ready almost feels unbelievable. As I was laying in
bed browsing reddit, I kept thinking "OK NOW I bet I'm running late,"
but not even close.

Yesterday had a lot of action. We had a big early breakfast, then headed
outside as a family to clean the shed. It had been about a year or so
since we gutted it, and it actually wasn't as bad as we thought it would
be. We took everything out, sorted it on the driveway, threw the garbage
in the car, then swept the shed. The most exotic things we came across
were two dead field mice (one of them was reduced to a little clump of
hair) and a big rusty axe wedged high up by the ceiling that must have
been left there from the previous owner. I was at first pretty excited
to retrieve the axe thinking it may have been left over from the
twenties back when this was a farmhouse, but flipping it over I found a
price tag sticker on the handler. What a letdown.

We also found a few bags of concrete left from when we first built our
backyard fence. I remember it was a soft powder when I slid it under the
shelf for storage, and now the bags were solid bricks. Disposing of them
was a real chore - I had to break up the bags with a shovel and scoop
them into buckets.

Marissa drove all the garbage to the dump, and I finished tidying up
with Rodney. When she got back, we put everything back in the shed.
There's nothing like the satisfaction of a clean shed. I almost wanted
to leave the garage door open all day out of pride.

We went inside for some lunch. I heated up leftover hutspot and
rigatoni. After lunch I took Rod to the grocery store. Later, Alex and
Cassie were coming over for dinner and I wanted to make some deep dish
pizzas. Rod and I also swung by the liquor store to pick up a bottle of
tequila for Alex.

I put Rodney down for a nap, then started on making the pizza. Being
unsatisfied with my deep dish dough last time, I decided to swap out the
olive oil in my recipe for melted butter. The dough was much caky-er,
like a pie crust. While waiting for the dough, I busied myself with
other things around the house, starting a load of wash and tidying up
the deck. I was enjoying all the cleaning momentum from doing the shed
that morning, and I guess I wanted to keep the cleaning party going.
When I got to a good stopping point, I joined Marissa who was napping on
the couch and played an hour of video games.

Rod was slowing waking up from his nap, and I went back into the kitchen
to make the sauce. Deep dish sauce needs to be chunky, and the best way
to get there is by simmering the sauce for a few hours, which also makes
the sauce more concentrated and acidic, which can be fixed by adding
sugar. Yesterday I made the realization that this is probably why
Chicago style red sauce tastes so sweet.

Before Alex and Cassie arrived, Marissa tidied up the house while I made
a salad. Rodney and the dogs got really amped up for company, and for
about an hour the play corner felt like a dog & toddler circus.

We had a wonderful time catching up with Alex and Cassie. We ate diner,
put Rod to bed, shared stories, and drank some tequila.

After they left, Marissa and I finished Minority Report, which really
took a turn for the best. "Basically, the movie got good after Colin
Farrell died," recounted Marissa.

Today, after church we're going to go grab some tacos for lunch, then
we're taking Rodney to a pumpkin patch. I think with fall weather this
good, it might actually be a crime to *not* carve a pumpkin at home with
your family.

Have a wonderful Sunday, everyone.

