---
title: cookies, land, wisdom, and laughing
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. It's raining just a bit outside. And judging by
my clock, the sun came up around 7:20? I wasn't paying too close
attention. I was too busy drinking coffee and watching Strongbad emails,
which is just a wonderful way to wake up for the day, and I recommend
you try it sometime.

I needed the extra ramp up time this morning. Last night was a long
kitchen work binge of cleaning up from dinner and baking a batch of
French heart cookies. It was my first night being off call in a week,
and lately I like to celebrate those by spending extra time in the
kitchen.

Baking is intense. Making those cookies, I thought by now I'd figure out
some way to outsmart the recipe - like folding and cutting the puff
pastry in a way that allowed you to make the cookie with no effort, but
so far the best way I've found to make those little heart cookies is to
just battle it out. If the hearts are too long, they tip over in the
oven and come out lopsided. If they're too small, they burn. If they
have too much sugar, they burn. And sometimes, worst of all if they come
un-sticked they turn into these weird little bean shapes and don't look
very appetizing. On top of that, the oven needs to be around 450F, so
the kitchen gets hot. I usually handle them with heat proof gloves and a
pair of chopsticks. I don't think there is a trick to these cookies. I
think it's just patience & practice - blood, sweat, and parchment paper.

Yesterday was a pretty hectic day. Our surveyor finally made it out
yesterday to look at our yard, so last minute I had to work the
afternoon from home. We were so eager to see the property line, it took
a lot of effort staying focused. I joked with Marissa that I just wanted
to sit in a chair on the front lawn and watch him, but we did our best
to give him his space. He put a few pins down, but had to take
everything back and run it through a computer to get the exact property
line. Still, it's already not looking ideal. The property line evidently
does run in a somewhat diagonal line from our house. Definitely not as
drastically as my neighbor claimed, but it's not an untouchable victory
for us. I was feeling pretty down about it, but after the work day
sitting down at our dinner table, Marissa came to my aid. It's really
special when people who are close to you blow you away with wisdom.
Marissa drove the conversation, talking about how we can't control
everything and about how growing up is choosing the more mature reaction
in moments like this one.

Feeling a lot better about the whole thing, we all took a trip to the
grocery store. Family grocery trips are great. You would think that with
all the fun we have shopping together that the trips weren't very
efficient, but we actually get in and out of the store pretty quick,
since Marissa just entertains Rodney while I find the items we need, and
Marissa and Rodney conspire to get away with extra snacks too. Among the
usual weekday dinner paraphernalia, we scored some red velvet cupcakes
and a tiny pumpkin carving kit that Rodney wanted to hold.

For dinner, we had some kale roasted in bacon, rice, and a baked sweet
potato. I also cut up some cheese, just to remove any doubt that there
wasn't enough protein on everyone's plate. That morning, Marissa had
asked for sweet potatoes as the secret ingredient, a lot like they do in
Iron Chef, and I had joked "what if I just made pasta or stir-fry
something and served an out of place sweet potato on the side?"

Marissa gave Rodney a bath, then handed him over to me for the bedtime
story. Rodney picked a book off his shelf that I didn't recognize, and
as I read this book with Rodney in his bed, it got stranger and stranger
with every page. The book was about this mother who loved her kid, no
matter what. The first page was very nice - the boy was two, and every
night she would crawl on her hands and knees into his room and pick up
the baby and sing to it. But on every page, the baby got older and the
mom would still do that. By the time I got to the mother picking up the
teenager I couldn't help but laugh, and by the time I got to the page
where the mother was driving to the "great big man's house" to crawl
into his room and pick that great big man up, I was laughing quite a
bit, and Marissa joined us in laughing on the baby monitor. The
weirdness of the book was lost on Rodney, but I think he appreciated the
laughter. I chucked the book on the floor and we read from an old
classic, *Bedtime with Blippi*.

I cleaned the kitchen while Marissa did some painting. Around 10:30, she
made her way to the dining room to work a bit on the computer. I tempted
her with the cookies that didn't turn out - the ones that either broke
in half or unfolded from cute little hearts into bean shapes. We
reconvened sometime around 11 to finish watching *Matt Damon Buys Some
Animals* as I have been calling it. It was a decent movie for the first
hour, albeit Matt Damon's false modesty is a little hard to sit through
sometimes. For the first hour of the movie my teasing was met with
scorn, but then the movie gets really stale and drawn out, almost as if
it refuses to end without spoon-feeding us several extra platitudes.
"This was an hour long movie with an hour long ending," I joked. Marissa
finally jumped on board. It was past midnight, we wanted to go to bed,
but every time we expected the credits to appear, Matt Damon launched
into another nostalgic monologue. I paused and saw we still had 6
minutes left, and Marissa and I burst into laughter knowing we still had
that much filler material to get through.

Well talking about all this got me in a good mood. This morning I'm
working from home so I can talk to the surveyor. I'll head into the
office around lunch. We have a busy work week. We have a team
presentation on Wednesday, a bunch of peer performance assessment stuff
to write, and since I'm off Friday I'm trying to wrap up all my project
work by Thursday.

Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday, and thanks for reading.

