---
title: sleeping in, interns, and frenchcooking
---

Dear Journal,

Mid day journal entry today! This morning I woke up at 8AM on the dot,
which is normally when I'm outside waiting for the \#15 bus. I didn't
know I still had the capacity to sleep through my alarm. My phone is set
to play *Solo Reprise* at 6:30AM every weekday, and normally hearing
Andre 3000 yell *AYYYYYyyyy* makes me immediately sit up. But not today
- I got a solid eight hours of sleep and woke up feeling suspiciously
well-rested.

I still managed to shower, feed the dogs, brew a pot of coffee for
Marissa, and make the slightly later 8:19 bus. One of the nice things
about living on an isthmus is that all the bus routes converge on the
same skinny strip of land, so from 8:00 to 8:30 I have plenty of lines
to choose from. But oversleeping just throws everything off for the rest
of the day. You can still drink coffee, check your email, review your
notes, write in your journal, and do everything else you'd normally do
if you were on time, but the whole day is just *off*, isn't it? It's
feels like I'm faking it.

Well whether I'm faking it or not, I'm still getting work done this
morning. The interns and I are starting to work on some Hashicorp vault
demonstrations. We've hit some road blocks, but all in all I think we're
making good progress, and we'll have something neat to show off at the
demo this Friday afternoon.

What else is going on - ah, the stuffed peppers turned out great!
Sometimes a recipe is so good, it just finishes itself, or becomes
impossible to mess up. The stuffing made from butter, shallots, and
chopped mushrooms had a life of its own - oozing and imbuing
deliciousness into whatever it touched. I popped them into the oven for
about 30 minutes before we left for the concert, and the whole house
smelled like the a French cottage. Brace for a *hot take*, but I think
those French are really onto something. Shout out to [French Cooking
Academy] for the solid instruction.

Today should be pretty low key. I'm going to finish my lunch, finish out
the work day, then I'm taking the Rod man to Hy-Vee to pick up stuff to
make spaghetti and meatballs. I've got some delicious red sauce hanging
out in the back of my fridge, and this is the last day to use it before
it falls into *iffy* territory.

If you're out there, and you too accidentally got a full night's sleep,
let's take advantage of the surplus of energy and attack the rest of the
day - no matter how irregular it feels. Nobody else knows you slept in,
do they?

  [French Cooking Academy]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC0lG3Ihe4LGV851lODRIS5g

