---
title: home, sfincione, movies, and quesadillas
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Thursday to you. And to my mother who is
probably reading this thirty seconds after it was published, happy
birthday Mom! The first thing on my to-do list this morning when I get
into work is to write you a birthday email, so expect that soon.

Yesterday was one of those days where I didn't leave my house all day.
In the afternoon, I worked a bit sitting on the deck, but it doesn't
count unless I left my backyard. I didn't even make it as far as the
driveway. I usually work from home on Wednesdays, but we didn't go out
to eat for lunch and I didn't need to go to the grocery store either, so
this definitely was a special case.

Rod woke up with about an hour after me. Marissa stirred, but I told her
to go back to bed and offered to get him ready for the morning. Marissa
has been staying up late trying to finish her paintings before the end
of the week, and I knew she could use the extra hour or so of sleep. I
worked on the couch while Rod watched Blippi. Sometime around 9:30 he
ran up to me with his wooden recorder and offered to go upstairs and use
it to wake Momma up. I laughed, because in that moment I couldn't think
of a worse way to wake up. The little devil over my shoulder wanted me
to let him - she would go back to sleep and laugh about it later, right?
But better sensibilities prevailed.

Around 11, I took a break and heated up some lunch. I had some leftover
hutspot and a saucijzenbroodje. I also had a beer. I'm conditioned to
expect a beer during Wednesday lunch, whether we go out to eat or not.

I finished up the workday, then sometime around four Marissa and I had a
quick sync-up to plan the night. We wanted to make sfincione, and since
we were planning on making it last week we still had all the ingredients
around. "I just need a yellow onion, so as dumb as it sounds we'll need
to swing by Hy-Vee…," I cut myself short while I was rifling around the
kitchen looking for ingredients. I spotted a perfect yellow onion hiding
under our bananans. "AH! Nevermind, somehow we have an onion."

Marissa took Rod to Home Depot to pick up some supplies, and I fired up
a podcast and started making the sfincione. Usually, we hurriedly make
this pizza on Friday night after I get home from work. I forgot how
relaxing it was to mix the sticky, sweet dough, simmer the sauce, and
grate cheese in the kitchen. I kicked off a podcast, then got to work,
getting the pristine pizza in the oven exactly when Marissa and Rodney
pulled in the driveway.

We had just added the new Lion King movie to plex, and since today was
such a cozy home day, I suggested we eat pizza on the couch while
watching it. Rod wanted to watch Blippi, so there was some family drama,
but soon enough we were all grazing on fresh pizza watching the movie.
We had seen it once in the theater, and the second time around seeing it
in our own home we felt the freedom to be more critical. "Is it just me
or does Mufasa sound less natural?" Marissa asked out loud. "Definitely,
" I agreed. "He has a great voice, but it sounds like a monologue, even
when he's talking to Simba." The movie continued on to the more well
known musical numbers. I pointed out that during the famous "Ain't no
worries" interlude, Donald Glover doesn't sing the melody straight.
Which is fine, but it bothered me that he even riffed on the first line
when older Simba emerges from the bushes. They also really make a meal
out of the Timon and Pumba dialog. It felt like a Seth Rogan buddy
comedy was laced throughout the whole song.

We paused the Lion King so I could put Rodney to bed. Marissa and I
stood on the deck for a few minutes watching the rain, then I did my
Wednesday chores while she worked in the basement. Before Marissa went
downstairs, she hinted that she would be in the mood for quasadillas
later that night. Message received loud and clear, wife. Around 11,
knowing she'd be coming upstairs any minute, I fried some cheese
quesadillas in cast iron. We were out of Mexican cheese, so I had to
make one of them with Mozzarella. I've always teased my wife about how
bad she is at differentiating which cheese is appropriate to use for the
given meal (e.g. mozzarella on Italian, Monterey on tacos), so I joked
that it was the great cheese tasting challenge. "One of these
quesadillas is appropriate for the theme - the other is an imposter," I
laughed.

After our late night snack, we watched a little more of Zach Braff's
boring self-centered loosely Madison based soap opera. I'm talking of
course about the movie *The Last Kiss*. We watched what felt like an
hour, but pausing the movie at midnight, Marissa threw a pillow at my
head seeing we had 55 minutes to go. The movie is definitely worse than
*Hitch*. At least it's 'soap opera' bad. It's very sad and infuriating,
but I have a feeling that it's going to get so bad it will take us out
of it and the rest will be easier to watch. The Madison Wisconsin
references are at an all time low. At one point, Sarah Bilson asked Zach
Braff to meat her at the terrace, and we recognized those weird colorful
chairs they had set down by the water. But if that and the capital are
the only part of our home we'll recognize this movie, it was *not* worth
it.

That's my time. Have a great day, everyone. If you see my mother around,
wish her a happy birthday.

