---
title: late night pages, ki gong, and deep-dish pizza
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! I'm feeling a little groggy today. This week I'm
on-call, and last night at 2 AM I woke to a handful of pages. Sometime
last night, Amazon lost power to an availability zone in their
datacenter in Frankfurt, Germany. I sleepily watched the metrics four
about twenty minutes or so, and to my relief, our automation took care
of things. The server was automatically decommissioned once it stopped
receiving network traffic, and a new replacement was provisioned in
another zone. I gave a tired fist bump to myself before drifting off to
sleep. It wasn't so bad after all. It was kind of the same sensation you
get when you accidentally wake up an hour before your alarm, check your
phone out of habit, then happily fall back asleep. And plus, yesterday I
rediscovered the PagerDuty App's custom notifications, which are pretty
hilarious. I have my phone set to "Barber Shop Quartet - The Server's On
Fire". So what woke me last night wasn't the usual dignified "chirp",
but instead a barber shop quartet singing the refrain *Theeee
serrrrrrrverrrrrr's ooooooon fiiiiiiiiiiire*. Dramatic stuff.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. After our team meeting, I attended
Monday morning Ki Gong with Justin. He was standing in the glass yoga
room on the ninth floor staring out into the snow, which was blowing
upwards and sideways against the face of our building. "It's like we're
standing inside of a snow globe," he remarked in wonder.

Since it was just the two of us for class, he took a more instructive,
tutoring approach. He showed me something called the "self-rejuvenating"
routine, in which we massaged our hands, feet, and legs. As we switched
from tapping our head, rubbing our hands together and passing them over
our eyes, digging our fingers into the back of our calf, and beating
ourselves in the chest, he explained to me that this Ki Gong stuff isn't
nearly as mystical as people think it is. "It's not magic, it's just a
theory," he explained. "And even though they can't explain why this
stuff makes you feel good, they don't need to." We finished the session
by *charging up our organs* with *good vibrations*, which sounds like a
strange Beach Boys song, doesn't it? We tapped and struck various
pressure points in the chest, legs, and neck. When I stood up, I felt
light on my feet, and almost like my pores had opened. Ki Gong is good
stuff, and now I couldn't imagine starting a week of ticket duty without
it. Justin humbly thanked me for attending, then we parted ways.

I spent the rest of the day trying to be as helpful as possible,
bouncing between slack conversations, scheduling production changes, and
commenting on tickets. For lunch, I scooped my hilarious chicken caesar
salad into a bowl and mashed up a hardboiled egg, because apparently it
*still* didn't have enough protein for me. Now that I've started paying
attention, you can really tell I don't eat a lot of salads. I clearly
have no idea what I'm doing.

At 4:30, I jumped on a bus and made a grocery list. Marissa formerly
requested deep dish pizza, and she didn't need to say it twice. It's a
little hard to fit into a weeknight meal, but Marissa and Rodney don't
mind if dinner is delayed by ten minutes or so. I woke Rodney from his
nap, and we went to the store. He was bundled up in his jacket and
gloves, and very talkative from the day. He played outside in the snow
while Mom shoveled the driveway. Marissa tried to build a snowman with
him, but Rodney had more fun knocking it over. Boys, right? Boys suck.

As I made the pizza, Marissa chatted in the kitchen while Rodney
wandered around living room playing with his toys. He made us each a
playdough cupcake on a tiny plate with a fork, probably to hold us over
while we hungrily waited for the pizza. That was considerate of him, and
probably made up for his earlier display of violent aggression against
snowman arts.

I did something a little different with the pizza last night. I decided
to leave out the store bought marinara and see if I could achieve the
desired thick & sweet deep dish sauce using only canned tomatoes. Not
only did it taste better, but it cooked much faster and the consistency
was much more appealing. When you simmer the tomatoes in marinara, the
tomato eventually completely disappears and you don't get those nice
chunks sprinkled throughout. But simmering in only a bit of water from
their can, the beautiful tomato chunks had nowhere to hide and were
forced to stand proudly atop the pizza.

I'm proud of my deepdish recipe. It feels like a real milestone in my
home cooking life. Deep dish pizza was always a childhood hometown
favorite of mine, but since I could only enjoy it after waiting an hour
at Lou Malnati's, I had it on a pedestal and just assumed that making it
at home would never be practical. To add to it, the amount of diverging
deep dish advice on the Internet is overwhelming. And one of my favorite
parts about my variation is that over time it has gotten simpler. There
are fewer ingredients in the dough & sauce, and it's becoming a lot more
reproducible. Maybe I'll make an instructional video and throw it on
YouTube.

For Monday's power hour, I started the week out strong by cleaning
behind the living room couch. Couches are amazing. It's a pretty
fascinating view of how your family relaxes. Crayons, coffee spills,
popcorn, socks - I'll spare you the gory details, but it's been a while
since I cleaned underneath the cushions.

So that's what I got today. I hope you all have a wonderful day today.
Remember to charge your organs, spend some time today staring at the
snow, and cook pizza for your family. As for me, I have another day of
work, where I'll be cruising the backlog for tickets and vigilantly
waiting for the barber shop quartet to sing *The Serrrrrrrverrrrrr's
Oooooon Fiiiiiiiire.*

Oh, and to any new readers in the Redalen family slack channel, welcome!

Have a great Tuesday, everyone.

