---
title: power outages, rodney's terms, and Intel woes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! I hope your Thursday is going really well.
Yesterday was a very full day - full with highs and lows. Things started
off pretty well. I had a very productive day, then went out to lunch
with my team at a pretty great Italian restaurant. However once the meat
lasagna hit my stomach, things slowed down and I didn't feel so chipper
in the afternoon. I push my change out into production, which went great
- absolutely no hiccups. There's nothing quite like the thrill like
moving around infrastructure while people are using it, especially when
it goes completely unnoticed. Afterwards, I had some meetings, then
jumped on the bus for home.

Marissa had told me that there were a few power outages in our house in
the morning, and as a result the dining room computer was no longer
booting. When I got home, Marissa also told me that the plex server was
down. I trotted upstairs and saw that the LED on the server was turned
off. I gently tapped the power button with my toe, and the machine
sprung to life. The file server is rock solid, so I knew it was back on
without even having to check. I was one for two, so far so good.

Against my better judgment, I decided to try to fix the dining room
computer before leaving for Hy-Vee with Rodney. I spent about fifteen
minutes rebooting, jiggling the video cable, futzing with monitor
settings, and trying to get into the BIOS with sheer luck by hitting
random F keys during boot. No dice.

For those who don't remember, our dining room computer is an Intel NUC.
It's about the size ofâ€¦ I don't know - maybe the kind of metal box you'd
keep your baseball cards in? It's very small, and as a result of the
cozy form factor, the hardware doesn't give you a lot of feedback when
something is afoot. There's just a pale blue power button that turns off
when the computer is powered off, and sometimes it turns orange for some
reason.

The computer put me in a bad mood, and probably related, the tiny
migraine I had since lunch had escalated. I blame the salty, saucy lunch
I had, but Intel made it worse. I popped an aspirin and head out the
door with Rodney.

Rodney was in a great mood, and on the car ride over I did my best to
match his enthusiasm for where we were going. Rodney told me stories of
getting to pet our vet's cat while taking Ollie, and also getting to see
the neighbor's cat playing in their window when he and Marissa got home.
So I gather it was a very cat heavy day.

We also listened to Christmas music - erm, I'm sorry, Rodney calls it
'santa music', and I'm trying to adopt the term in my own day-to-day
life. I try to make it a habit of using Rodney's terms for everything. I
enjoy the way he sees the world. For example, to Rodney there are no
*sir*'s or *madam*'s. He simply addresses everyone as *officer*. And
while we're on the subject, police officers drive *ambulances*. He gets
excited about what he's getting for *chrimbus* this year, and in the car
we listen to *santa music*.

So as the santa music played on, I asked him for an update on what he
wanted for chrimbus. He didn't seem to have any new ideas. Parking at
Hy-Vee, Rodney suddenly got excited, seeing two officers in the parking
lot walking back to their ambulance.

Rodney and I picked up groceries. We grabbed some kale, a french loaf,
onions, carrots, potatoes, some bacon, and some yogurt to restock in the
fridge at home. I also treated myself to a half pint of Hennesy. In the
winter I like to drink it with eggnog. While I checked out in the side
liquor store of Hy-Vee, Rodney rearranged the tiny plastic bottles of
Schnapps at the checkout. "Thanks for doing that, mister," said the
cashier gesturing toward Rodney. "No *prawwwwblem*, officer," said
Rodney while flashing a grin. The cashier looked at me, puzzled, and
doing my best "sounds-right-to-me" face and we walked away to buy the
rest of our groceries.

I cooked dinner while Rodney watched Blippi. We had hutspot, kale, and
because I was feeling lazy and still burnt out from the Intel NUC
fiasco, a microwaved rotisserie chicken from the counter. For all the
chicken I make at home, I still can't make one as delicious as those
little wrapped rotisserie chickens from Hy-Vee. But maybe someday.

Marissa kindly offered to put Rodney to bet while I continued battling
the dining room computer. I was relieved to discover that it was just a
problem with the HDMI driver. The computer seemed to boot fine (most of
the time) with my VGA adapter. I spent about an hour following Intel's
instructions for updating the BIOS (which is the term for the very tiny
amount of code that runs just before your computer boots up, and you
usually interact with it by hitting F2 or something). I sacrificed a USB
drive, downloading a new binary from Intel's website and rebooting - F7,
RETURN, RETURN.

The screen went black for several minutes, and the pale blue power
button winked erratically. The computer booted to our desktop.
Triumphantly, I switched the computer back to it's rightful HDMI cable.
Blackness. Nothing.

I felt a knotted ball of rage in my throat. After some hushed
expletives, I plugged the VGA dongle back into the computer and wrapped
the now defunct HDMI cable around the monitor arm. I was done for the
day.

And so concluded the day of broken things. Now an hour and a half sunk
in my Wednesday chore evening, I reluctantly decided to scrap the
night's Nesting Power Hour. I like to think wrestling with Intel's BIOS
counted toward that somehow.

Man, the words come easy when I'm ranting about broken software. Today,
wherever you are, I hope the computers in your life are good to you
today. They can be helpful sometimes, but don't let them off easy.
Resist showing gratitude when they simply do their job, because the
truth is they're probably one or two power outages away from
inexplicably not booting to HDMI anymore, no matter how recently the
BIOS was updated.

Have a great day everyone.

