---
title: cooking, bears, caterpillars, and code
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Monday to you. This morning I feel like I'm
coming out of a haze of relaxation, so we must have done a good job
winding down from the wedding on Friday. Yesterday Marissa and I
finished unpacking the car and putting everything away, and we had
plenty of time to get some other regular weekend things done.

Yesterday morning, I got Rod up around 9 and we went to the grocery
store. We haven't been in the kitchen all weekend, so I was planning
kind of a comeback day. We picked up some bacon, lemons, and everything
needed to make dinner. When we got home, he helped me put the groceries
away, and he watched cartoons while I fried some bacon and made a Dutch
baby.

I cleaned up breakfast and finished emptying the car, knowing I'd
probably be glued to the TV starting at noon for the Bear's game. Marisa
left around noon with the dogs to go to an agility trial, and Rod and I
hung around and watched the game. The Bears played in London yesterday,
and what was cool is that even though this was technically a home game
for the Raiders, Bears fans outnumbered Raiders fans 10 to 1. But
judging by the game, the turnout didn't influence how they played. Our
boys played like crap, then they played well, then they played like crap
again and we lost by three points.

I guess it could have been worse. Going into the second half, spirits
were low and things were starting to look like a blowout. But we
rallied, and for one quarter we came back and took the lead, but we gave
up a touchdown late in the 4th quarter and that was pretty much our
death sentence. As we head into a bye week, I hope Nagy and the team use
the extra time bring back a little discipline to our line. Hey at least
we'll have Mitch back. We'll see what happens.

As the game was finishing up, I made peposa and a caprisi salad while
Rod played outside. He has some days where he's totally content playing
by himself, and other days he feels the need to show and tell me about
everything as its happening. Yesterday while making dinner, he was
really into this caterpillar he found crawling on the deck. He would run
into the kitchen with a great sense of urgency asking me to come help
him with something, then by the time I got my shoes on and walked
outside with him (leaving two or three things on a lit stove mind you),
it turned out to be a weird request, like he wanted me to play his toy
recorder in front of the caterpillar while he shined a flashlight on it
- like it was some kind of weird ritual. Of course I obliged him -
purely out of respect for his made-up toddler ritual. I think it was
some kind of ancient toddler blessing.

Sip. The coffee is good today. Yesterday at the grocery store I splurged
on Collectivo coffee, and I also ran cleaning solution through our
coffee maker yesterday. So the combination of fresh, quality beans
running through a freshly de-calcified coffee pot is really doing the
job this morning.

Ah, I got to work on some side projects yesterday. Last night I was
hacking on the chores website. One night with Marissa's help, it
occurred to me that logins on a private website were silly, and last
night I finally got the time to rip all the authentication out. And
while I was under the hood, I also decided to move the data to my NAS,
and clean up a number of other bugs, and I guess in the process I
committed the cardinal programming sin of changing too much too quickly,
and I had to abandon things in a broken state around 11:15 PM. In the
meantime, we're just using the honor system, but I'm looking forward to
getting that working again.

Marissa and I picked up watching Blade Runner, the original. I'm sorry
but the movie is a lot slower than I remember. It's had it's moments
obviously, but somehow we still have over an hour to go and it's
starting to feel like a chore. Not as much of a chore to watch as
*Hitch* was. Have I told you about how terrible the movie *Hitch* is?

This week I'm on ticket duty at work, so again gearing up to be very
helpful and outgoing all week. I'm also on call, so I'll be hanging
around the house in the evenings with my work laptop close by. It will
be a good week to catch up on tech projects. I have the changes to our
chores website to rollout, then with Marissa's help I'm going to redo
the mini upstairs datacenter with the new parts I got for my birthday.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. Keep your head down, eat good
food, and before you know it, it will be the weekend again.

