---
title: french cooking, missing burners, and the case from hell
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well this morning. I was
having difficulty finding time to write this morning, which is
surprising, because I'm working from home today and without the commute
you'd think I'd have all the time in the world. I took a little longer
getting ready this morning, then I noticed Rodney was awake. To keep him
from bothering Marissa while she was trying to get out the door for dog
class, I took Rodney in the kitchen to make a French omelet for us to
share. We cracked three eggs, Rodney added a heavy pinch of salt, then
we "busted those eggs right in the yolks" as [Chef John] likes to say.
We cooked the eggs gently in butter, swirling the pan and scrambling
with a spatula. At this point, I had to stop explaining things to Rodney
so I could focus - I had only successfully made one of these one other
time. Finally we rolled the flat egg pancake into an omelet. I sealed it
with my finger against the side of the pan. Rodney touched the hot egg
with his finger to, and recoiled. "Oh sorry dude, that's kind of hot,
isn't it?" I asked. "Want me to kiss it?" That's a standard remedy in
our house. "No," Rodney responded. "Mommy kiss it." Rodney jumped off
the step stool and trotted upstairs. That's fair, I guess. He's allowed
to have preferences. I agree with you, dude, Mom's kisses are superior,
especially while Dad is in the second week of *movember*.

Yesterday was a pretty action-packed day. I had another busy day on
ticket duty, flying from one meeting, ticket, and slack question to the
next. This week I'm trying to get over my shyness and meet with people
in person (or at least in a video call) whenever I can. Typing words has
always come easier to me, but I've noticed for most people - especially
people who are stuck on something - prefer an in person explanation.
Plus, looking somebody in the eye, you get a lot of empathy for free.
It's a lot harder to get grumpy about somebody's issue when you can hear
the frustration in their voice, and maybe even see how tired they are in
their face. But you never point it out to them - that's just rude.

On the way home from work, I made a grocery list. "What do you feel like
tonight," I messaged Marissa. "Tilapia," she responded. I knew what she
was picturing - some seared tilapia served with a can of baked beans,
and maybe a can of sweet corn. But I had a busy day at work, and when
work picks up I like to spend extra time in the kitchen, so instead I
planned to make tilapia, herb & rice pilaf, and a french butter sauce.
Like most dinners, it was a combination of things I've done before and
things I googled on my phone on the way home.

Rodney and I drove to the grocery store. Even though we had a lot of
ingredients to pick up for dinner, most of them were in the produce
aisle, so we took our time. We picked up some fish from the meat
counter, swung over by the dairy for some heavy cream, and finally
grabbed a miniature bottle of white wine from the liquor store.

As I cooked, Marissa worked on a painting in the dining room. I put on
some quiet Frank Ocean and started dicing vegetables, carrying on a
conversation with Marissa about the day. I started the rice early,
cooking some onions in butter, then adding long grained white rice,
water, and minced garlic. Next was the sauce - some diced shallots,
terragon, and butter. I waited until the shallots softened in butter,
then added a cup of white wine. "This missing burner is really starting
to irritate me," I griped. Marissa looked up from her painting in
concern. "Yeah, would it have helped you to have a fourth?" she asked.
"It's not so much that I'm missing a burner, it's just that out of the
three I have, only one of them is big." On most evenings, missing a
burner on our stove doesn't bother me - only when I make something
ambitious and French. Ordering a replacement part is on our todo list -
it's just one of those things that's hard to get around to, especially
since we've tried to order one and it was the wrong size.

The little back-right burner finally brought the wine to a simmer. I
nervously glanced at the clock. "Ahhh, I forgot about how long this
sauce takes, we might be eating a little late," I complained. Marissa
shook her head. "You know we're always fine no matter what time we eat,
7:00 PM is just a deadline you set for yourself." I laughed, "AH, yeah I
guess it's only 6:40, we're still in the clear."

Dinner was finished at 7. As we ate, we talked about our weekend plans.
"You know," Marissa started, "there's that dinosaur show at the Aliant
energy center, I bet we would have a lot of fun there as long as it's
not too scary." She spun her chair around and found a TV spot for the
touring dinosaur show on YouTube. Rodney smiled. "Oh man," I exclaimed.
"That's looks awesome dude."

After Rodney went to bed, Marissa and I caught up on chores, then I used
the power hour to finally assemble that router case that has been
sitting on my desk. I was picturing about twenty minutes of assembly,
ten minutes turning everything back on, then I'd use the rest of the
time to tidy of my server rack. But opening up the box, suddenly the
dining room table was filled with tiny screws, cables, and pieces of
metal frame. There was also a pair of white gloves - like the kind that
you'd wear if you were dusting for fingerprints. I knew I was in
trouble.

By the time I had figured out how to assemble the case, it had already
been an hour, and I had to shift my attention to getting the Internet
back on. This project will have to wait for a weekend. I sloppily packed
up all the parts in a plastic bag, penning "CASE FROM HELL" on the
label.

So that's what I got today. Hope you all have a wonderful day today.
Being halfway through the week, it might be a good idea to find some
place quiet to sit and not think about anything, even if it's only for
fifteen minutes. I'm going to try that today.

  [Chef John]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXPhVYpQLPA

