---
title: coffee, hotsauce, kale, cables, and frosties
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! As you're reading this, I hope you are warm, dry,
and drinking a good cup of coffee. This morning my coffee maker is
acting a little weird. Of the 12 cups of water I added, only about 4
cups made it into the pot. And at this point I'm kind of frustrated and
I'm asking the universe out loud how many different things can go wrong
with a simple drip coffee maker. At this rate I'm going to end up buying
one of these stupid things every month. *Sip*. At least it tastes OK.
Maybe a little strong. Perhaps this whole debacle is just operator
error. If I accidentally brewed some *super coffee*, we'll know by the
end of the entry if I start going off the rails.

Yesterday was a great day. I had a quiet morning, spending most of the
day working on something difficult. The project I took this week sounded
easy, but yesterday I discovered all this hidden complexity, and had a
weirdly fun time mentally piecing it together. I went for a quick walk,
got stuck in a downpour, then ate lunch at my desk. I brought leftover
tilapia mixed with baked beans spiced up with an excess of pineapple
habenero hot sauce. It ended up being one of my favorite lunches. The
tilapia toughened up just a bit in the fridge, almost like chicken
breast, so it held up really well chopped up in the baked beans. And
good hot sauce is always a treat. I would like to start cooking with hot
sauce more.

I had a few more meetings in the afternoon. We met with our Secure team
neighbors about some Amazon account strategy stuff, and throughout the
meeting we dabbed the pineapple habanero hot sauce on little crackers.

I took the bus home, and as I walked up our driveway, Marissa and Rodney
greeted me on the front step. Sometimes when I come home Rodney is
playing in the yard, or they're both drawing on the driveway with
sidewalk chalk, and it warms my heart. Today they were just angrily
swatting mosquitos, and after a quick hello hug we darted inside to
avoid the late fall bug spawn from yesterday's rain.

Rodney and I jumped in the car and drove to Hy-Vee. I had a full dinner
planned, and I wanted to shave off as many minutes as possible. We made
a quick lap around the store, picking up everything we needed to make
saucijzenbroodjes, with a side of red potatoes and carrots. I also
decided to throw some kale and bacon into the mix. Hy-Vee was out of
garlic yesterday, which is something I have never seen before. I had to
buy the "special garlic" that is packed into gourmet tiny boxes. Opening
it at home, I felt like I was unboxing a special computer part, but
inside was just a single underwhelming stubby head of garlic.

I love it when a recipe just clicks. I mixed and chilled the ground
beef, tossed the red potatoes in oil and arranged them on a baking
sheet, threw the carrots in a pan with butter, and slowly starting
rendering the chopped bacon on a skillet. I've done kale and bacon
before, but this time, armed with the carbonara knowledge, I started
with a cold skillet to render out more of the fat. I added the kale and
allowed about ten minutes for the steam to leave, then the leaves
started to darken and lower into the skillet, wicking up the bacon fat.
I was so entranced watching the kale transform that I almost forgot
about the rest of the meal.

We ate dinner and chatted about the day. Marissa had taken Rodney and
the dogs to agility practice, and Rodney had another great potty
training day. Marissa gave Rodney a bath while I put his laundry away,
then we put him to bed. Before bedtime, I made the mistake of letting
Rodney read the story. Oh, he'll very sweetly ask if he can read to you,
but he really just rifts with the book open in his lap, trying to get
some final laughs out of you before bedtime. It's like toddler stand-up
comedy.

Rodney went to bed, then I went upstairs to set up my new computer I
bought with my birthday money. It's a new raspberry pi, and I splurged
on the 4GB model, but in a total oversight, I forgot that this model had
switched from HDMI to micro HDMI and didn't have the needed cable
on-hand. I decided to take the car to Best Buy. As I was heading out the
door, Marisa meekly asked me to pick up a frosty from Wendy's on the way
back, and who could turn that down? I braved the heavy rain all the way
down East Washington only to find that Best Buy was closed, but I still
picked up Wendy's.

Marissa and I ate our frosties on the couch and watched some YouTube
videos, then I got up to start another round of dishes and wipe down the
kitchen. Marissa cleaned the stairs. We reconvened at 11:15 to start a
movie. Marissa picked *Fantastic Mr. Fox*, and it sucked us in
immediately. As we watched the movie, the dogs wrestled on the carpet,
almost like they were competing with the movie for our attention.

This morning, I'm enjoying this concentrated cup of super coffee while
getting in the mood to dive back into work. I'm working from home today.
Marissa will take the dogs to agility practice in a bit, then as long as
the rain holds off, we'll walk to Glass Nickel for Lunch. This is my
last work day before a long wedding filled weekend, and to celebrate I
think I'm going to make a deep dish pizza tonight.

Hope you have a wonderful day today. Remember, always start bacon in a
cold pan, Best Buy closes at 9PM on weekdays, if you drive to Wendy's at
night during a flash flood warning, drive slowly. Thanks for reading,
and have a great Wednesday.

