---
title: groceries and gumbo
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! This morning I'm feeling a little thrown off by
the time change, even though this was 'the good one'. I feel like that
extra hour of sleep was swallowed into oblivion, and I feel more
frazzled than I'm supposed to.

This morning we're going to try to make it to early church, which is
exactly one hour from now. The plan is to write for a half hour, then
somehow shower, change, and get Rod dressed and fed inâ€¦ fifteen minutes?
Sounds totally doable, right? At least Rod's breakfast is pretty easy.
On the weekends we like to eat things like bacon, scrambled eggs, and
Dutch babies, but on most mornings he just eats a half of a stroopwaffel
and a dollop of yogurt.

The coffee is just about to finish brewing. It was a risky decision
starting this journal entry without any caffeine, but this morning it
was necessary. I'm relieved that I can finally pour a cup and start to
feel human again.

*Sip*. OK, maybe it wasn't quite finished brewing yet. That's a cup of
super coffee, but it will get the job done.

Let's recap yesterday. Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. I had high
hopes for redoing the IT shelf, but the day was just kind of lost to
cooking, errands, and relaxing on the couch - which is just fine too, if
you ask me. In the morning I cooked some french toast, then we all ran
some errands as a family. We first swung by the flower shop. The art
fair was going on and one of Marissa's Instagram homies had a booth this
year. We checked out her booth, then spent a few minutes wandering
around. The greenhouse was warm and humid, and it was nice to take a
break from the cold, even though we had only been outside for a few
minutes.

Afterwards, we went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner and other random things.
I always forget how busy Hy-Vee gets on the weekends. Lately I've been
taking Rodney to the Jenny Street market on Saturdays. I think because
Jenny Street is a little smaller, it's harder to buy in bulk, so you
don't get as many of the one-day-a-week shoppers that crash the place on
Saturday morning.

Me lazily walked around the store, working through our grocery list. For
dinner, I was planning on making chicken and sausage gumbo. I had never
had gumbo, and was excited to make it and try it for the first time. For
a side, I was also planning on making pork belly bits braised in wine.

We packed the car with our groceries, and since it was almost exactly
*refrigerator temperature* outside, we decided to park the car at the
Grover street mall and get some pizza for lunch. We ordered some slices,
and found a quiet booth inside. Afterwards, we walked around the new
complex, which had a few more stores and developments since we last saw.
Marissa and I continue to be perplexed at what the ultimate goal of this
renovation is. The pizza shop was a solid choice, but the rest of the
building is a wide open warehouse. There were picnic tables set up, and
then a random speaking venue tucked in the corner, with a small stage
and microphone, and a bunch of chairs pointing in the same direction.
Wandering upstairs, there were a few more shops and offices tucked
behind narrow corridors. All throughout the building, they set out some
old original factory equipment for display, but everything was crudely
labeled and just sitting on the floor.

"This place is like part shopping mall, part office building, and part
half-assed museum," I remarked. "And why would you set out all this
stuff on the floor if you're not supposed to touch it?"

Maybe I have nothing to complain about. If we get an Ian's pizza out of
this, it was worth it - even if the rest of the building becomes a weird
disjointed physical manifestation of somebody's pinterest board.

We got home, and I put Rodney down for a nap and started cooking. The
gumbo needed a few hours on the heat, so I basically had to make the
whole thing by 4:30. I made a dark roux from smoking hot vegetable oil,
which was very exciting, and used it to deep fry the slices celery,
onions, and bell pepper. I mixed in chicken stock, seared chicken
thighs, chopped sausage, and a whole New Glarus Staghorn beer. Per
[Isaac Toup's instruction], I also kept adding black pepper to the pot
until my arm got tired.

The gumbo turned out really well, but it wasn't a very popular choice
with the family. Marissa thought it was too soupy, but appreciated it
when the thick gravy was strained out. Rodney was rubbing his tongue,
yelling "SPICY!"

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed and did the dishes. One of my favorite
parts of making soup is cleaning up afterwards. I rinsed out my Dutch
oven and poured the slurry through a strainer, rinsing with hot water.
Turning an entire pot of hot soup into a small, condensed puck of solids
is gratifying. It's also a great opportunity to pick through the
ingredients and examine them up close. It's like a soup autopsy.

That's my time - and my target word count. Hope you all have a wonderful
day today, and put that extra hour of sleep to good use. Today, we're
going to church, then hanging out with some friends to watch the Bears
game. Happy Sunday, and I'll see you all in the next entry!

  [Isaac Toup's instruction]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nORg_aXMsmA

