---
title: pho, cards, and sherpa socks
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're all having a wonderful day. At the
moment, we're barreling down the interstate highway bound for our home
in Madison Wisconsin. Icy rain is gently rapping the windshield, "New
Body" by Kanye West is quietly thumping through the car speakers, and
Rodney is in the back seat man handling a blueberry donut like it owes
him money. Marissa kindly agreed to drive the first leg of the journey
so I could write.

I didn't sleep great last night, but that was probably my doing. To
celebrate our last night in Minnesota with Marissa's family, I sort of
opened the throttle on the pizza, snacks, and beer. So I had a difficult
time rolling out of bed this morning, but thinking ahead at the warm cup
of coffee waiting for me at the Caribou drive-through, I persevered. We
packed the car, said our goodbyes, and left this morning around 9:30.
Something tells me that I just need to unpack and have a nice bowl of
soup, so the plan is to pick up some groceries at Hy-Vee and whip up a
leak and potato soup for dinner.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. We lounged around the house all
morning drinking coffee, and when we finally got hungry enough, we
jumped in the car to grab some Chipotle. Walking all the way up to the
door, we stopped in our tracks - "Closed". Marissa called her parents,
who were parking the car. As they discussed a back up plan, I
obnoxiously hush-shouted *Pho* into Marissa's ear. She laughed, and
added "Alex is really excited about that Pho placeâ€¦ OK see ya there."
Hearing that it was actually happening, I started to get excited for our
suddenly adventurous lunch. I was referring to this little Vietnamese
restaurant in Rochester that is right off one of the busier roads.
Despite it's unimaginative black-on-white signage that just reads *PHO
THAI*, I insisted that it was promising. "I have a good feeling about
that place," I'd say while passing it, wagging my finger out the window.
So needless to say, this was a pretty big day for me. We would finally
put my restaurant instinct to the test.

We sat in the middle of a dining room, and to my relief, they were busy.
Very busy. That's the first good sign of a restaurant. But despite the
bustling dining room, we were quickly served drinks. We ordered some egg
rolls for Rodney, then glancing over the menu, the beef rice noodle soup
caught my eye. "Is it spicy? I'm kind of just looking to flush my system
here," I said to the waiter gesturing at my nose. "It can be as spicy as
you want, you can just add chili oil," he said directing my attention to
a small jar and spoon set out on the table. According to the menu, the
beef rice noodle soup had slices of steak and chunks of beef tendon,
which honestly sounded so weird that I had to try it. Ten minutes later,
the waiter lowered what looked like bucket of soup in front of me. Steam
was billowing from the pale yellow broth, and giving it quick stir
showed thin, delicate slices of beef, green onions, and what looked like
a birds nest of beautiful white rice noodles.

After cutting up Rodney's food, I beckoned for the jar of chili oil, and
generously dabbed my soup with the miniature spoon. The deep red oil
beaded and rolled around the surface.

The soup tasted glorious. My nose started to run, which garnered some
teasing from the table, but it was exactly what I needed. As my nose
ran, I could feel my sinuses flood with fresh air as the beef broth
warmed me from the inside out.

Digging around with some chopsticks, I found a small chunk of meat, but
it was ghostly white. "Ah, this must be the beef tendon," I said holding
it up. Marissa looked at me in horror as I closed my eyes and chewed it.
It tasted like a fatty piece of gristle, only it melted in my mouth
without chewing.

In short, *Pho Thai* was an experience. And as far as meals go, it was
probably the highlight of my week. Maybe I'm biased, wanting to prove my
new restaurant instincts as worthy.

We returned home and Grandma Mary visited. She dropped off some Lincoln
logs for Rodney, and she gave me a pair of warm rubber soled socks. "Are
they too small?" she asked with concern as I squeezed my big feet into
the fuzzy sheath. "Nah, they're awesome! Look at me, I look like a
sherpa!" I happily replied.

We said farewell to Grandma Mary, and Rodney, Marissa, and I retreated
into our bedroom for a long afternoon nap. The beef noodle soup was
still resting comfortably in my stomach, and to not capitalize on the
lunch with a nap would feel like sacrilege.

The rest of the day was pretty low key. We ordered a pizza, and after
putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I watched animal planet and played
cards until we couldn't stay awake. It was a fun way to unwind after a
long trip.

After seeing family on both sides across three states, we're tired, but
our heart is full, and we're feeling proud to have finished our hectic
holiday week in one piece. I'm thinking about my couch, a bowl of soup,
and my dogs.

We have a day to recoup, then Marissa's sister and - as of yesterday -
her brand new fiance will be staying with us until New Year's Eve. As
Marissa and I played cards last night, we planned out some meals, and I
think the Recker kitchen is really going to bring the heat. Justin, if
you're reading this, you had better come hungry. We're going to test the
limits of what you claim is an iron-cast bottomless stomach.

Thanks for reading, everyone. Wherever you are, hope you find time today
to recoup after the holidays. Even if you have to recoup in the car.
There's still something comforting about an empty, cold highway, isn't
there?

