---
title: tacos, orchards, nightmares, and steaks
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. It's another Monday, and another week. Speaking
of which, can I tell you about a recent lifestyle change I've made? I've
switched all my calendars over to Monday being the first day of the
week. I don't remember exactly how Sunday became the first day of the
week (especially since in the Bible that was the last day of creation),
but whatever the reason I'm sure I'm not helping or hurting the cause
with my own Google calendar settings. I don't know about you, but my day
begins on Monday, right now.

So yesterday, despite Marissa and I having a wonderful day planned, it
sort of crashed and burned. First after church we were planning on going
out to eat at Bel Air. Bel Air is one of those restaurants that is
either *really* good, or it's *really* horrendously bad, and yesterday
it was bad. Marissa and I got burritos, and they were wet, cold in the
middle, and Marissa found exactly four peas in hers, which makes you
wonder if they even meant to put peas in a burrito. And who puts peas on
a burrito? "It's like they made a Shepard's pie, then suddenly
remembered they were a taco place and corrected it last minute," I
joked. I got the steak and eggs breakfast burrito, and it too was
underwhelming. But at least Bel Air has those great free taco chips,
right? They found a way to mess that up too. I don't know if this is a
permanent change, but instead of the usual big basket of warm chips, the
waiter brought out a tiny cereal bowl that had only handful of chips.
Rodney commandeered the first bowl for himself, and I don't blame him.
The amount of chips the waiter set down at the table were just about the
amount that I would pour for Rodney at home, except this was supposed to
be for three people. I really hope that's not a permanent change. The
chips were one of the great things Bel Air had going for it, and good
chips can save an iffy dinner.

After lunch, we drove to the apple & pumpkin orchard. Marissa had read
online that the place we were going to was one of the best. We were
bundled up and looking forward to wandering around a pumpkin patch,
trying some apples, and just having the perfect cozy fall experience. We
parked next to the sign, got out of the car, and apart from a small
building with some pumpkins set out on an indoor table, we couldn't find
anything. Marissa asked someone where all the animals were, and they
directed us across the street to a small sheep pen. We wandered over,
and indeed, there was just a small sheep pen. Being completely unmanned,
it felt a little strange bothering the sheep, like we were trespassing
on somebody's hobby farm and harassing their animals. At least one of
the sheep was friendly enough to wander over and hang out with Rodney.

We wandered across the street and back into the building to pick out
some apples. They were out of honey crisps. I'm no apple connoisseur,
but going by Marissa Honey Crisp apples were the main reason she wanted
to come. We sampled some apple slices, bought a pumpkin, and left.

On the way home, Marissa and I talked about the apple orchard in her
home town. It was a big sprawling farm, there were hay bales for kids to
climb on, wooden cutouts to take pictures with, fruit samples and
animals galore, and a big pumpkin patch where you could wander around
and pick your favorite pumpkin right off the vine. I think that's the
kind of place we were both expecting, and our disappointment was mutual.
Rodney would have loved the orchard in Rochester. I guess it all wasn't
a bust. He got to pet a sheep, and he picked out a pumpkin for carving
later this week.

We returned home, and having already struck out with our lunch choice
and the orchard, it suddenly became one of those days where you had to
take a nap and just start over. We put Rodney down, and Marissa and I
fell asleep on the couch letting the TV play quietly. I woke up an hour
later to Rodney crying. I think he had a nightmare, because he was
saying something about "momma" and "ghosts". I asked him if he wanted to
go to the grocery store, and he quickly nodded. "Sometimes when you have
a really weird nightmare, it helps to do something very routine to shake
it off," I explained.

He was eager to go shopping, so we took our time. We walked around the
store taking in Hy-Vee's Halloween decorations, picking up some steak,
potatoes, and mushrooms. As we went down the bread aisle to find Mom's
favorite blueberry bagels, Rodney excitedly yelled out "DAD! DANCING!" I
glanced up to find him indeed dancing. Something about that aisle puts
him in a dancing mood I guess. We spent a few minutes spinning, waving
our arms, and I tried to show him how to moon walk. Having a three year
old is a great excuse to dance, and dancing feels good.

We got home a little late, so I jumped on dinner. I roasted some red
potatoes and made a mushroom stuffing. I wanted to mash up some hard
boiled egg yolks into the stuffing, but I must have miscalculated how
hot the water was, and when it came time to peel the eggs, a beautiful
yellow egg yolk fell right out into the sink. "So it looks like we're
skipping the eggs," I yelled from the kitchen.

I fried a steak on some cast iron. It wasn't a perfect dinner, but at
least it was better then our lunch. I have a feeling I paid just a
little too much for those steaks. We ate dinner, then watched an episode
of Blippi on the couch before putting Rod to bed. I cleaned the kitchen
and Marissa straightened up the basement. About an hour later, she
proudly showed me her new basement wood-cutting corner. It's been a
pleasure to see her slowly conquer the basement. The section of "junk"
has been slowly receding further into the corner, like a melting
iceberg.

We watched *We Bought A Zoo*. In my book, that would be a perfect movie
if Matt Damon weren't in it. "You know he's really not that good
looking," Marissa laughed while the movie was paused during a close up
of his face.

In about four minutes, my on-call shift ends. This week, I'm hoping to
clean up my IT corner. With Marissa's help, I'd like to install some
shelves and make a nice corner to display my fancy new kubernetes
cluster.

Have a great day everyone. Be generous with taco chips, and grocery
shopping is a great way to shake off the nightmares.

