---
title: computers, gravy, weekend, and agile
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Wednesday to everyone. I’m doing today’s journal
entry from our proud new dining room computer, which I just finished
building last night. I guess “building” is a generous term. I ordered an
Intel NUC, a stick of RAM, and a hard drive, and plugged everything in.
As per usual, way more time went into placing and wrapping cables -
which is absolutely an art form. This morning I’m filling the new
machine with games and other neat things. Marissa and I agreed that it
really jazzes up the dining room. Just having a computer here increases
it’s hang-out-ability by at least a factor of four. We have a nice place
to play music, pay bills, browse the web, and of course play games. This
weekend I’m going to set up a Minecraft server, so in short, it was nice
knowing all of you and the Recker family will see you next year
(kidding).

Yesterday was jam packed with meetings, cooking, and chores, but it was
a fulfilling day. I finally had a successful gravy recipe. Watching the
butter, flour, and stock combine is completely magically - I’m still not
even quite sure how gravy works, but the formula is simple and almost
feels like alchemy. Just watch - now I’m going to be incorporating gravy
into everything. Pizza. Pasta. Hot dogs. Everything is going to get a
hearty drizzle of homemade gravy! Also kidding.

I’m really looking forward to the weekend. Not only does my on-call
shift end on Friday, but I have a work picnic pretty much all day, and
that rolls into a long guys only weekend. My wife will be in Chicago for
my sister’s bridal shower, so Rodney and I are holding things down
ourselves. And we have a new computer to play with. I think on Saturday
we’re going to cook something together, like a deep dish pizza. Lately
when I make food in the kitchen, he drags our little step ladder out to
join me - which is undeniably adorable, but an extra element of
challenge. I need to make sure he feels useful without touching anything
hot, sharp, or raw. Making a pizza is very kid friendly, isn’t it? The
dough is fun to play with, and grating cheese is pretty benign, from a
kitchen safety perspective. It’s more fun for a kid than stir fry.
Rodney walked into the kitchen on Monday while I had a hot oily wok on
the stove and asked “ladder? ladder?” and I just turned him down, so I
owe him a long cook-with-dad session.

So this week, the interns and I are trying out a new thing. We’re doing
a pretty old school agile workflow, keeping all the work on hand written
index cards taped to a whiteboard. It’s a bit ironic, but I was taught
that’s the best way to teach people how modern software teams work.
There’s a lot of rules and terminology to learn, and having it all in
once place right in front of you without the distraction of software
makes it easier. It’s also a real learning experience for me - I’ve
never actually had to teach anyone agile or scrum, and it’s kind of fun
- in an unexpected arts and crafts way. We’re taping, drawing, and even
putting little color coded stickers on things. Welcome to the future,
huh?

Well, hope you have a wonderful Wednesday today. Cook with your kids -
something other than stir fry.

