---
title: naps, pizza, walks, drinking, and wrestling
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Friday everyone! Yesterday was quite the day. It
was pretty much end-to-end meetings, the last of which being the staging
DR exercise that the interns and I have been planning over the last
month. It was pretty tense. We hit a few snags, but all-in-all, it was
successful and pretty impressive. We grabbed a beer at the work happy
hour gathering to celebrate and debrief before I jumped on the bus to
head home.

After getting home, I was surprised to find that Rodney was still
asleep. I was in no hurry, since we had decided to eat out somewhere and
there was no need to make dinner. I climbed under a blanked on the
couch, joined by Zig Zig. At first, we watched a few YouTube videos, but
it quickly turned into a deep, solid thirty minute nap. Ziggy slept up
by my head with her nose nestled in between my neck and the pillow. I
felt like I was drifting through space - it was an excellent nap, and so
rewarding after a busy day.

I woke up to Rodney yelling DADA at the top of the stairs. With great
reluctance, I emerged from the most snug place in the universe so we can
get on with our evening plans. We decided to walk to the new Ian's pizza
that sprang up in our neighborhood about 0.8 miles away. By evening, the
cloudy sky had cooled the air, and mysteriously the mosquitoes weren't
out last night, making for a wonderful walk down the nature path to this
exciting new pizza place. The location was a former factory, and it is
being refitted into some kind of miniature indoor bistro. While waiting
in line for our pizza, there was plenty of room for Rodney to run
around.

We enjoyed our pizza and a couple of beers on a picnic table outside.
The dogs didn't get to eat anything, but they had their fill in
attention. They were very popular with the bike path crowd, and Ollie
and Ziggy basked in the brief popularity.

After we walked home, I put Rod to bed while Marissa mowed the lawn. I
worked a bit on the Minecraft server. Marissa and I are going to try to
play tonight while she is spending the night in Chicago, so it was
important that I figured out the networking ahead of time. Once I got it
to a working condition, I joined her in the dining room and we caught up
on some YouTube videos. Last night's playlist was the new [Hot Ones
interview featuring Stone Cold Steve Autstin]. Steve Austin was a
pleasure to listen to. Podcasters are very loquacious, and being a
professional wrestler he had lots of interesting anecdotes about the
industry. While "professional wrestling" is a form of staged, fabricated
entertainment, you can go down a really interesting rabbit hole reading
about the culture, the daily life, and close-nit bond that these
wrestlers experience.

Today is nothing short of a victory lap for the week. We have a few
meetings that lead up to lunch, then we're heading over to the park for
the company picnic, where free beer and food abounds for the weary
worker. I am due back home at five, but as I'm taking the bus home I'm
planning on rocking a mild, mid day buzz, then tapering off in the
afternoon. You gotta be careful with those Wisconsin craft beers,
though. The difference between two, three, and four beers is a whole
order of magnitude. Now that I mention it, I might as well break down my
system. If you want to enjoy a craft beer, but still be productive
immediately afterwards, one beer is perfect. If you must, get a second,
but do not finish it. The maximum beers you can enjoy productively is
literally 1.9, so enjoy the second one if you're having a good
conversation, but whatever you do, do not finish it. For some reason,
exactly two beers is enough to break the party barrier. Anything between
two to three beers can be called "the Friday night zone", as this should
only be enjoyed on a weekly basis - perfect for unwinding after a tough
week. But a fourth beer is usually asking for trouble. This should not
be attempted unless you're prepared to deal with the consequences, or
you need to show somebody up on the dance floor at a wedding. May as
well call four beers "the wedding zone". To review, I intend to hang out
in the Friday night zone through lunch. Again, this system only applied
to craft beers, if you're drinking a standard PBR or a lager, those tend
to be a little more forgiving (and hydrating). Lastly, a good rule of
thumb to follow is try to drink one pint of regular old water for every
pint of beer you drink. Your stomach will thank you.

Hope you all have a fun, relaxing Friday night. Grab a drink, you've
earned it.

  [Hot Ones interview featuring Stone Cold Steve Autstin]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCXfezz4BB8

