---
title: sick days, refunds, homemade marinara, and video editing
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're all staying warm out there.
According to weather.com, it's going to be pretty cold today, so if
that's true for you, make sure you bundle up. This morning, I've got a
nice hot cup of coffee on the table, and the rest of my family is
comfortably sleeping upstairs.

I'm glad that Rodney finally got some sleep. Yesterday when I got home
from work, he woke up from his nap looking pretty terrible. Marissa said
that all he had for lunch was some water and a couple of paw patrol
fruit snacks. His fever spiked a few more times in the evening. Poor
guy.

Lucky for him, he doesn't have any plans anyway. Being sick sucks, but
remember that dreadful feeling of having to catch up on homework when
you took a sick day in school? That was always the worst. Somehow you'd
end up doing twice the amount of work you normally do, and to ensure
you're not absolutely buried in homework the next day, of course you
have to get a jump on it when you're still feeling sick, but well enough
to work on something. I'm happy that Rodney had nothing to worry about.
Last night, after politely excusing himself from dinner, we let him
settle in on the couch under a blanket and zone out to some Blippi.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. I got lots of work done. Contrary to
what I was thinking yesterday morning in my sleepy Monday delirium, I am
not on ticket duty, so I have a whole extra week before I need to turn
on that part of my brain. And after ticket duty, I have a whole week off
for Christmas. That worked out pretty well. Working extra hard, then not
working at all is an great pairing, isn't it?

I spent most of the day coding, taking breaks to catch up on emails and
clean up some stuff on my laptop. I'm still on the fence about asking IT
for a new laptop. Every time it starts acting a little wonky, a simple
reboot seems to set things straight again, and waiting for my computer
to reboot is a great time to get a cup of coffee.

I'm pretty sure there is something ingrained in my head that keeps me
from returns, refunds, and exchanges. I'll almost always instead find
work-arounds, or convince myself that I didn't really need the thing to
begin with. One of the silliest examples of this trait is when I bought
a skateboarding helmet from target about three years ago. I just needed
a helmet so I could ride to work in the mornings, so while at Target, I
snagged a pretty simple black adult helmet. Shortly after buying it and
walking back to the car, I realized that the buckle was missing. A
normal person would have turned around and gotten a refund, right? Not
me. Instead, I tied a shoe lace between the straps where the buckle
should have been. "This is fine," I thought. "I can just untie the
shoelace when I want to take the buckle off." I must have used that
helmet for half a year. In an effort to save me from embarrassment, my
wife even retied the shoelace, and trimmed the excess so it wouldn't
hang down off my chin like a strange feathery goatee. So there's the
helmet story - a great example of my weird tendency to refuse giving up
on something I own, no matter how silly the workaround. And it's
probably the reason I've convinced myself my four year old work laptop
is just fine.

After work, leaving Rod to get some much needed sleep, I snuck away to
Hy-Vee by myself to pick up spaghetti, some pork, and materials to make
pasta sauce. But while standing in the aisle from which I normally buy
marinara, I had a strange impulse to make it from scratch. Maybe I was
feeling brave, or more likely I no longer wanted to choose between cheap
premade marinara and the expensive *yuppie* marinara from the authentic
food aisle at Hy-Vee. So instead, I grabbed a can of peeled tomatoes and
an extra head of garlic.

I made the marinara a lot like my pizza sauce. Just some grated garlic,
olive oil, and a bunch of oregano. In hindsight, I forgot to add the
tomato paste - that probably would have made it even better. From there,
I blended the can of tomatoes and added them to the mixture, and let it
all gently simmer for about twenty minutes. After a pad of butter, you'd
think it was a can of premade marinara after all. And the cheapness
cortex of my brain lit up with endorfins at the prospect of saving four
dollars.

Continuing the theme of dinner experimentation, I also gave my broiler
another whirl, this time with some pork, lemon & cheese meatballs. It
worked beautifully, searing the meat and giving them a nice crispy edge,
but it would have been even better if I used tinfoil instead of my
silicon mat. It also would have saved me a lot of time, as I had to
scrub the meatball grease out of it after dinner.

Marissa and I ate pasta while Rod relaxed on the couch. We tried to get
him to eat some plain noodles with cheese, but he wasn't feeling it. We
took him upstairs to give him a bath, which made him feel a lot better.
Shortly after, we put Rodney to bed.

For the rest of the night, my plan was to catch up on chores, then edit
a video for Marissa. She was even kind enough to take out the garbage
and wipe down the table so I'd have more time in the video lab. This was
the first footage taken with her new camera, and we were both eager to
see the results. However, I didn't anticipate how the larger raw videos
would slow down the editing process. Usually, I speed up the videos,
then use the mouse-over scrubbing to trim off the dead footage before
adding music, but the videos were so large, rich, and detailed, that my
software choked trying to preview the changes and decode everything on
the fly. I think what I'll have to do instead is run the raw footage
through a script that will programatically speed them up to make them
more tenable in the editor.

So that's what I got today. It's Tuesday, I've got leftover pasta and
three meatballs packed in my backpack, and I'm ready to brave the cold
and trot over to the bus stop. Wherever you are, and whatever you're up
to today, I hope you have a wonderful day today.

