---
title: coffee, fish, butterflies, and work
---

Dear Journal,

The coffee is really good today. Yesterday I went to the Jenny Street
Market, and it wasn't very busy, so Rod and I finally figured out how to
buy whole bean coffee. It's a bit of a to-do, so I'm glad I waited. You
have to walk away from checkout to fill the bag, and then the cashier
has to weigh the beans. I went with *Del Sol*, the morning blend, and
even when brewed with our uninspiring coffee maker, it tastes pretty
next level.

This morning I've got work on my mind. I spent pretty much all day
yesterday documenting Friday's outage. My team did some research on
Friday, and I did some of my own Monday afternoon. This morning, we have
our post mortem meeting. These things feel very official, and even
though my work does a really good job keeping things objective and
blameless, I can still get defensive if I don't watch myself. This
morning I'm just trying to get in the right head space for a very
friendly, amicable technical cross examination.

Yesterday I finally went off call, and I enjoyed the solitude today. For
lunch I grabbed a sandwich from Starbucks, then I sat on the terrace and
stared out at the water. It wasn't as hot outside as I thought it would
be, and the as always water had a very calming presence. There were
still a few monarch butterflies hanging out by the flowers. I thought
those butterflies were supposed to take their winter migration pretty
seriously, but maybe if they find a place they like, they hang out for
an extra week or two - there's probably room for that kind of freedom in
the butterfly community, right?

After work, I took Rod to the market, and we picked up stuff to make
Kibbeling. As always, I got plenty of cod and shrimp, but I also tried
out some perch. The perch looked pretty cool while it was frying. The
thin strips puffed up in the hot oil, and the skin blistered. I'm also
learning to be a little less shy with the heat. I really cranked the
stove and allowed the oil to reach the upper 300's, and it came out a
lot crispier. I also left the shrimp in for almost a full minute after
I'd normally take them out, just as an experiment. It's tricky finding a
balance between getting it crispy and cooked just right. I used to talk
a lot of crap about the fried fish they sell on Fridays at restaurants
around Madison, but I'm finally coming around to how difficult it is to
perfect. When you're frying fish, there's a lot of room for choice, and
also a lot of room for error.

After dinner, Marissa gave Rod a bath, then handed him off to me to put
to bed, which is a pretty classic way to divvy up the bedtime routine.
After getting his pajamas on, Rod wanted to spend a few minutes jumping
around like a frog. Lately, he really likes to stall during bedtime, so
every inane step of the bedtime routine has the potential to turn into a
big time waster if you're not vigilant. He'll stop brushing his teeth to
look out the window, then he'll tell you a story of the time he saw a
cat in the neighbor's window, then before you know it he's grabbed a
brush out of the bathroom closet and started to scrub the bathroom walls
(the painted walls). When we finally make it to bed, his new trick is
asking to read the story instead of me, which was charming at first, but
he's quickly realized that when he's got my attention it's much easier
to burn minutes after the official bedtime of 7:30, hamming it up with
stories, throwing his voice into his stuffed animals, and pretending to
talk on the phone to family members.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa sanded frames outside, and I sat out
there with her and drank a beer. It felt good to just enjoy the
conversation without having to keep an eye on my phone in case I got
paged. The day after my on-call shift ends, I joke that I "stick my
phone in a drawer all night", and it's not far from the truth. I usually
put on music and just leave it in the kitchen.

After the post mortem today, I'm probably going to feel like a mid day
beer, so Marissa and Rodney are going to meet me for lunch for taco
Tuesday. It will feel nice to finally close the book on Friday's
incident. We'll have to spend a few weeks focusing on preventative
measures, but that's not so bad.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. Thanks for reading.

