---
title: palm pilots and free software
---

Dear Journal,

In seventh grade I saved up my money and bought a Palm Zire. I was
really excited about this upgrade, because it would be the first Palm
Pilot I had with a color screen and support for viewing pictures. You
could load your personal files on an SD card and insert the card into
the device, and the coolest part about this was that you could even use
your own picture as a custom background image. The Palm Zire was
everything I hoped it would be - the battery lasted long, writing with
the stylus was snappy and responsive, and the enormous 12 square inches
of screen seemed like almost too much rel estate.

A few of my other friends at school also had Palm Pilots, and before
school we would pass around each other's SD cards and trade games and
apps. I always felt a little guilty about it, because I had assumed it
was technically stealing, and that even though copying the app to a
friends device happened to work, if you wanted an authentic copy you had
to buy a CD-ROM, install it on your desktop at home, then sync it over
to your palm pilot while it was docked (that was a very gratifying
ritual as well - you would press a big glowing green button and the
"HotSync" process would cause your device and computer to display a
loading par simultaneously).

My friend gave me an application called "Yesterday". It's icon had a
little apple and steno pad. It was a to-do list program made
specifically with students. Not only could you quickly add tasks to a
queue, but you could group them by class and even create a list of books
you would need to bring home that night. The benefits of this app were
self evident after only a few days of use. It actually made me excited
about getting work done. It was gratifying tap the completed items with
the stylus and watch a thin back line run through the middle of the
text, and when you were all finished with your work, it would display a
icon of a beach, implying that it was really time to relax now that your
work is completed.

But the more I used this app, the guiltier I felt. For how much mileage
I was getting out of this nifty little application, I felt a little bad
that I wasn't running an authentic copy. One day, I got curious and
started poking around the menus, and I found the README. "YESTERDAY is
shareware", it said. That was the first time I had ever seen that term.
"You may buy a copy, but please share this program with as many friends
as possible." My guilt immediately vanished. Was it really that simple?
I didn't realize that someone could intentionally give their program
away like that.

That was the first time it really clicked for me. I had always admired
people that can tastefully automate something, and I was really inspired
by the generosity of forgoing clunky activation tokens and tacky "trial
expired" error pop-ups for the sake of just helping as many people as
possible. To write a program that helps people, then to just give it
away for free - what a wonderful thing to do for the people around you.

I think there's a trick in software, and it's counter intuitive. You
would think that the more expensive something is, the better it is,
right? Well in software, it's usually the opposite. You want to use as
many free programs as possible, because free programs are written by
people that were just trying to solve a problem, then had the meekness
and generosity to just give it away. Perhaps free software is better
because the author is more focused on the problem than making a quick
buck. The Yesterday program felt like it was written by a real student
who was fed up trying to find the right program that fit a student's
work load. Maybe it's better because people that are thrifty with their
wallet are more resourceful with what computer resources their program
uses. You know what I really think it is? At the end of the day, I think
generous people just have good taste.

What's your favorite computer program? Did you pay for it, or was it
free?

