---
title: gnocchi, work, and philly
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. What a beautiful morning. Not conventionally
nice morning - it's chilly, the sun isn't out yet, and it looks like
it's going to rain pretty much all day. But after a long, humid, buggy
summer, the change is welcomed. I've been dying to wear a hoodie to work
again, and today I may get my wish.

I had a wonderful weekend. We got plenty of outdoor time, cooked some
good recipes, and had plenty of moments to recharge. Yesterday's gnocchi
turned out really good, and it was pretty easy to make. I used two
spoons to form the gnocchi, using that technique where you pass a little
wad of dough back and forth until it forms a pillow, then you just
gently shimmy it into hot water. The first few came out a little rough,
but I got the hang of it. Once all the gnocchi were made, I browned them
in butter on cast iron. The brown looked pretty cool against the green
(there was lots of basil ground into the dough, I promise it was
supposed to come out green). Not only did I redeem my first gnocchi
attempt, but now I have a recipe that uses a whole container of ricotta
cheese. And I also know how to find the ricotta at my grocery store. For
some reason, it disappeared from the usual cheese wall, making me
question if it was "out of season" or if ricotta was actually hard to
come by during certain times of the year, but they just moved it over by
the cream.

I'm pretty tired today. I must not have slept very well, I'm having a
hard time getting any thoughts going this morning, which is why I'm
finding it easier to just focus on what's currently in my stomach
instead. Today will be the first regular work day I've had in a while.
Instead of running stand-up for the interns and handing out work, I'm
going back to just being a regular guy on my team. I'm looking forward
to laying low today. I'm going to knock out some individual work, and
maybe even listen to a podcast or something. Then I'll sneak out
somewhere for a quick bite.

This week, I think I can't avoid planning for the reunion. I had the
week wrong in my head, which earned me a whole extra week of putting it
off, but now it's *actually* two weeks away and it's time to get the
ball rolling.

For dinner tonight, I'm planning on making some Philly cheese steak
sandwiches. I watched a video last night - it just involves searing a
cheap steak in olive oil, then cooking it on a bed of onions. It all
gets cut up and mixed with some cream cheese and peppers, then baked on
a sandwich bun. Since our dog Ziggy was born near Philly, we joked that
she's been *dying* to have a cheese steak again since moving to the land
of cheese heads, so this is partly inspired by her hometown.

I think the coffee is finally kicking in. I feel quickened with life,
and suddenly I'm feeling motivated enough to shave this morning. I've
crossed that definite threshold that separates "indifferent, the style
choice" from "indifferent".

Hope you all have a wonderful day today. This morning before heading
out, grab your favorite hoodie. It might still be a little too warm for
it, but you can always take it off later. This morning, we can together
live in the delusion that fall is here.

