---
title: hayward 2
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was a wonderful day. We took our time drinking coffee and
nibbling on breakfast before we head out on the boat around lunch time.
Once we got out onto the lake, we realized the tube wasn't inflated
correctly and we had to double back - but we all didn't mind the boat
ride and the warm sun. After we docked, Marissa and her mom headed up to
the camper to restock the cooler, and Tom took the tube pump to a nearby
outlet, leaving me and Rodney in the boat. It was fun to watch Rodney
putz around the boat. He spent some time sitting in the passenger seat,
he leaned over the edge looking for *baby sharks* (I may have told him
that was a possibility).

When everyone returned, we once again headed out on the lake and got
some tubing time in. Rodney, Renee, and Marissa were the first to go.
Rodney was unsure about the whole thing, but he was a good sport.
Marissa and I went for a while. It's funny how soar you can get just
laying on a tube getting pulled behind a boat. How is that even a
workout? Why do my joints hurt so bad right now?

We anchored the boat by some shallow water. Marissa agreed to watch
Rodney while I closed my eyes at the front of the boat under a beach
towel. Falling asleep on a boat gently tossing in the water might be one
of the greatest kinds of naps on earth. While I slept, I thought about
the story where Jesus slept on a boat during a thunderstorm while the
apostles thought they were going to die. I woke up feeling refreshed,
and to my surprise Rodney was sleeping too. He takes a nap every day in
the afternoon, and old habits die hard - even on a boat.

We went out to dinner at a pizza place from Marissa's childhood. I got a
free beer that they poured by mistake. After dinner, Marissa and I went
for a quick walk around the campsite before deciding to turn in for the
night.

Today, we're going to play a few rounds of bingo before making the drive
home. I'll spend the whole drive thinking about what to make for dinner
when we get home.

Let's have a Sunday! Take a nap on a boat if you can, I really recommend
it.

