---
title: servers, chores, projects, and wings
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Hope you are all having a wonderful Sunday so
far. After beginning yesterday with the "doom and gloom" theme of broken
software, things quickly took an upward turn. We walked to Walgreens so
I could pick up a replacement USB drive, grabbed some Taco Bell on the
way home, then I got to fixing the file server. I had forgotten that at
some point I moved most of the critical configuration data onto a more
resilient disk, so after recreating the boot drive and importing the old
data, the old file server came right back up. It even remembered where
Marissa had left off watching the Office and where Rodney had left off
watching the Lion King. I had feared the project would soak up the rest
of the weekend, but it was all over in an hour. To prevent this kind of
issue from happening again, I even added a second identical boot drive.
It's pretty gratifying to just rip out a USB drive or a computer part
while the computer is booting and witness it pretty much have no effect.
As a techie, that might be my version of revving a car engine at a
stoplight. I used the extra time while Rodney was napping to clean up
some other things that were in the backlog, concluding my Saturday side
project stint. Before I knew it, everything felt like a regular Saturday
again.

Speaking of side projects, my birthday is coming up, and I think it's a
reasonable assumption that I might come into some spending money soon.
I'm already starting to think about redoing the tech wall. Last time we
checked on it, I had paired it down to just the bare bones router, and
there's a pretty big chunk of Plexiglass wide open. But yesterday it
occurred to me that it might make more sense to put a shelf or two
there. That would allow me to be a little more economical with the
space, and be able to rearrange things without having to bug Marissa to
break out the powerdrill. And I still think a shelf of miniature servers
would look pretty cool, especially if I went with one of those clear
plastic cases.

After Rodney woke up from his nap, I took him to Hy-Vee. I didn't have
anything wild & risky planned for dinner - just some chicken breasts,
asparagus, and potatoes - all things that could be slowly roasted over
the same indirect heat on the grill, which gave me plenty of time to sit
outside on the porch and enjoy the cool weather with Marissa and Rod. As
a little snack, I tossed a few thin cuts of stale French bread right
over the coals, charring them for a few seconds. I love experimenting
with stale bread - we seem to have it around all the time, and it's
pretty expendable. If you mess it up - no biggie, it was stale anyway!

After dinner, I began the rigamarole of putting Rodney to bed. It was a
late one, especially because we still had to shower and put his laundry
away. Rodney helped fold and hang his clothes. These days, I'm pretty
impressed with what he can pick up on. I've started to assume that he
can handle any kind of job, and half of the time he gets it right. He
can bring things into the house, get things out of the fridge, and put
things away. I think we're finally hitting the tipping point, and my
head is spinning thinking of all the chores we can finally delegate
away.

This morning, we're sleeping in, enjoying the return to 11 AM church
services. Getting to mix a whole extra hour into the Sunday morning
routine makes a big difference. I'll wrap up this journal entry, then
finish a cup of coffee and heat up some breakfast leftovers. Yesterday
morning I made a whole Dutch baby that went right from the skillet into
some Tupperware. In hindsight, those things are so easy to make, there's
no reason to ever make one ahead of time.

After church, Marissa and I had some projects we wanted to get done.
We're going head home for some leftovers, pick up a few things at Hy-Vee
and Hobby Lobby, then we're hoping to clean the outside windows - one of
those chores that we still haven't done, despite living in this house
for four or five years. And judging by some of the windows look, it's a
chore that probably hasn't been done since the roaring twenties.

After chores, I'm going to make Chef John's [RAM Wings] for the Bears
game. We haven't had a game in two weeks, which has been a real test of
my newfound football faith, but I'm still beating the drum.

Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday. Clean your windows, eat chicken
wings, and rest up before another work week. See you tomorrow, sports
fans.

  [RAM Wings]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBI8TceHD9k

