---
title: picnic, pizza, photos, minecraft, and spiderman
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was wonderful. I got to work at my usual time, had a few
meetings, then caught a ride to the company picnic. It loosely followed
a "county fair" theme, but in a very cool, laid back kind of way.
Besides a few games to play and a giant slide, it was pretty much a time
to drink beer, eat some food, and hang out. Among the selections was
PBR, so it turns out I didn't need to follow my rigorous, fool proof
system for staying sober after all.

I had some good success with the carnival games! I rang the bell with
the mallet, played some ring toss, and almost guessed the mystery beer
down to the brewery and type. The drinking and standing around in the
sun must have made me more upfront than usual. When the person running
the beer guessing game asked me if I knew who the brewery was, I yelled
out "because Capital Brewery SUCKS." I don't know if he worked for
Capital Brewery, but it got a good laugh out of him. And it's true, they
do suck, so I stand by the exclamation.

We made our way back to the office and I caught my usual 4:30 bus home.
Marissa was all packed up and ready to leave, so after a quick farewell
she hit the road and Rodney and I started on our pizza. We had a good
time. Rodney kept eating the cheese that we grated and set aside for the
toppings, and he thought it was pretty funny and kept sneaking bites
even after I "yelled" at him. We also used the dough trimmings to make
some breadsticks - well, Rod took some creative liberty and mashed them
into little patties. So they were like little biscuits, and they turned
out pretty good, he might be on to something.

I put Rodney to bed, then worked a bit on the computer. I set up a
wallpaper randomizer for the dining room computer, and as I was
populating with images I got to just browsing old photos. It's fun to
look back and see everything that changed - especially how things were
2-3 years ago. It's a bit of a nostalgia blind-spot for me. We were in
the same house, and we had a kid, and for the most part did all the same
things we do today, but the little things jump out at you - like the
color of the walls, what you were eating, and how you had things
organized.

It was a pretty quiet, lonely night without Marissa. It sucks spending
the night apart from your spouse. We met up around 11:20 for a minecraft
date, and that was a highlight. It was fun to get back into minecraft
and use the downtime of waiting for the virtual sun to rise to just
catch up with the built-in Minecraft chat.

I called it sometime around 1:00 AM and turned in for bed. The puppies
were really bummed that they had to go to bed without their momma.

This morning, Rod is watching Spider-Man - the 2002 Toby Maguire movie.
He's really taken with it lately. And I don't know what he sees in it -
don't get me wrong - it's a great movie, but it's just way more Toby
Maguire and not really that much Spider-Man. And it's a lot of Willem
Dafoe. I find it so funny that Rodney is sitting on the couch with a toy
in his lap, absent-mindedly watching Willem Dafoe perform a dramatic
monologue in an old mansion.

After journal & coffee time, Rodney and I are going to walk to the
grocery store, checking out the construction on Oak street along the
way. Don't tell Mom, but when she comes home we're going to have
prepared an Italian feast!

Hope you have a wonderful Saturday today. In the words of Willem Dafoe,
"You are who you choose to be - NOW CHOOSE!"

