---
title: packing, monster trucks, traffic, and chicago
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! This morning I'm coming to you from Adam and
Sam's kitchen. As I was rustling around trying to find a new set of
clothes, Rodney sat up and looked at me. His eyes narrowed tiredly, and
he shifted to grab his puppy toy and went back to sleep. So I think it's
safe to say I have another half hour or so before he feels like getting
out of bed.

Adam and Sam live in the middle of Logan Square Chicago, and they live
the perfect distance from the El where you can hear the train quietly
roar in the distance, but it doesn't shake the house. I'm pretty sure
the train was responsible for lulling me into a deep, restful sleep.

And we needed our sleep! Today is gallery day. Later this morning we're
going to head over to the gallery with Sam and start setting up for the
show. The plan is to keep Rodney occupied with his toys in the corner,
then take him for a walk around the neighborhood when he gets antsy. Who
knows - we might even go grab a hot dog or something - but *no* ketchup!

Yesterday after getting home from the hotel with my dad, I hung around
the house and helped my mom feed all the kids lunch. Marissa took a well
deserved break from kid duty while I sat on the couch with all the kids.
It's such a joy watching them all interact with each other. Even at
three, Rodney and Alice's relationship is special. At one point they got
in a little skirmish over who was playing with a plastic chip clip, and
the fought as some kids do. I intervened, explaining to Rodney that he
needs to share, and the way he said "sorry Alice" was really remarkable.
I coerce at least a dozen *sorry's* out of him per day, and I'm used to
the way they sound, but the way he said "Sorry Alice - so sorry" was
genuinely remorseful and touching.

And Alice is a fascinating kid. Even slightly younger than Rodney, she
has focus. She meets your eyes when you talk to her, and she thinks
about what you're saying. Not to single out Alice - Frankie is no
chopped liver - she too his hilarious and adorable. Marissa tells me
that Sarah compares her to *eleven* from Stranger Things in that she is
seemingly mystically clairvoyant and in tune with everything around her,
but can't talk, so she can only smile, grin, and furrow her brow.

We repacked Rodney's stuff, then crammed our CRV with clothes, bags,
toys, filling in the empty space between the wrapped paintings and
frames. Our car was hilariously - cartoonishly - packed with things.
"You guys need to get a minivan," laughed my mom as I closed the trunk
with one hand, propping up Rodney's mattress with the other. I'm with
her there.

We started to make our way to Chicago, stopping off at Target to pick
out a toy. He proudly returned with a green monster truck. "We almost
went with two smaller ones, but in the end he wanted the single big
green one," recounted my wife. Rodney excitedly reiterated the same
thing, using plenty of Rodney toddler filler words.

We picked up some coffee, a bagel, then hit the road again. As we
approached the city, majestic Sears tower piercing high over the
skyline, traffic slowed to a crawl - which I didn't mind at all. Driving
downtown is a lot easier when nobody makes any sudden moves. And to add
to that, it had been a while since our family was all in the same place.
Sitting in traffic on the highway sipping hot coffee, Rodney fiddling
with a new toy in the back seat, it's like we were in our own cozy
little bedroom inching forward on the highway.

We made it into the city, carefully navigating to Adam and Sam's place.
Rodney eventually dozed off, briefly winking awake at the sounds of car
horns and trains whizzing by over our heads. At last, we pulled over on
his street. Adam cheerily met us on the curb, waiting to park our car in
his garage.

Adam and Sam led us into their house, warning us about the stairs. They
too have an old house, and being fellow members of the 100 year old
house club I felt solidarity in their uneven floors, tricky stairs, and
low ceiling edges that have already claimed a piece of my forehead.

We dumped our stuff in their guest bedroom. Rodney sprawled his toys on
the table, creating a little nest of monster trucks, dump trucks, and
race cares. I was worried at how he'd take the realization that we're
spending one more night away from his house, but he really took to it. I
like to think he's kind of like me, and finds the city energizing, but
he was probably just happy to be out of the car and playing with some
new toys. Ginny, their big friendly hounded, bounced from lap to lap
warmly welcoming us with big glorious puppy kisses.

We hung around the house for a few hours chatting and catching up.
College friends have a funny way of bringing out your college
personality - at some point while we were sipping beers and hanging
around I suddenly got the urge to skip class, play Halo, and go grab a
Burrito.

"Rodney hungry," Rodney interrupted. That was our segue into dinner. We
locked up the house and walked a few blocks down to a thai place. "This
is one of those sharing places," Adam said. "In that case, I leave it
all up to these people!" I proudly announced to the waiter. It's a real
treat to just let go and let somebody else order dinner for you. They
brought out pad thai, shrimp, and hot fried rice that was ballooning out
of a halved pineapple. We toasted our mai tai's, my pregnant wife with
her diet coke and Rodney with his pineapple juice - which I imagine was
still a pretty exotic choice for him. I'm glad Rodney got to dine out of
his comfort zone as well.

Well, now approaching the end of this journal entry, I'm feeling fed,
rested, grateful, and ready to work. But I can't help think about our
lovely little house in Madison, and our puppies patiently waiting for us
to return at the kennel (don't worry - they're doing just fine. We paid
for the luxury package). And I'm smiling knowing that this time
tomorrow, we'll all be sitting together in the living room home at last.

This has been a wonderful weekend. Seeing the Bears beat the Cowboys at
Soldier field, watching Rodney bond with his cousins, and catching up
with friends - my cup runneth over.

Alrighty - it's probably time to wake up the rest of my family. Hope you
all have a wonderful day today.

