---
title: sexy chicken fingers, rodney's gibberish, and turkey brine
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Saturday. This morning I'm up a little
earlier to get a jump on cooking breakfast, but I'm having a difficult
time getting the blogging juices flowing. Last night to my utter horror,
I pulled out our glass coffee carafe from the dishwasher and saw there
was a big crack running down the middle. I could of sworn this happened
a month ago. So until one of us makes the perilous trip across the
street to Moka in the morning chill, we are coffeeless. Send help.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. I worked in the morning until around
noon, when Marissa and Rodney met me on the square. I love catching
Rodney's attention outside in the busy square - usually I can get within
fifty feet of him before he notices me. He'll yell "DADA" loud enough
for the whole street to hear, then take off running towards me. We put
some fliers up for Marissa's art gallery in the coffee shops, then
decided to go to Argus for lunch. We sat in the basement next to a pool
table.

Argus is probably our favorite bar on the square right now. The food is
good, while still being on the cheaper end. The beer selection is great.
And inexplicably, despite these truths, it's never busy. Their big thing
is *sexy* seasoning, which is really just a combination of the Cajun
seasoning and garlic parmesan seasoning. It's just a bit over-used. Kids
chicken fingers? Well, we only have *sexy* chicken fingers, would you
like us to hold the sexy? Great - so chicken fingers - hold the sexy -
would he still like a side of sexy fries? Yes, he would, my son will
have chicken fingers - hold the sexy - and a side of fries - go light on
the sexy. Can the fries be lightly sexy? I was willing to overlook the
annoyance, though, because our waitress brought me an accidental double
pour of beer.

After lunch, I waved to my little family as we parted ways. Rodney
offered be a final YOU'RE AWESOME as I turned away to walk back to my
building. I worked through the afternoon until our end of the week
meeting. We finished off the work day chatting in the conference room
and sipping on some beer. I took the bus home, greeted the family, then
threw together a deep dish dough with Rodney in the kitchen so it would
rise while we bought the rest of the groceries. At Hy-Vee, along with
tomatoes, garlic, and cheese, we also picked up some bacon and eggs.
Marissa's dad was going to be spending the weekend with us, and we were
eager to prepare a big breakfast in the morning.

At Hy-Vee, Rodney also picked out a football from a ball bin. There was
a big bin half-filled with footballs with the Badger insignia, and half
filled with footballs with the Packers logo. "You can have the one with
the W," I explained. "The ones with the green *G* are bad. We don't
bring those in our house." Rodney tossed the football to himself as we
bought our groceries. Later, as we were waiting for the pizza to finish
in the oven, Marissa and I sat on the floor tossing the football to each
other. Rodney was in the middle, having fun just reaching his arms in
the air and trying to block our game of catch. Rodney knew Pappa Wilke
was on his way to our house, and even though he wouldn't see him until
the morning, he was already planning his part of the weekend. "DADA -
play football with Pappa Wilke?" "Oh, dude, that's a great idea. Add
that to the list."

As we ate pizza at the table, Marissa and I chatted about the weekend,
Rodney chiming in with things he wanted to do in between bites of pizza.
We got on the topic of Rodney's gibberish. Rodney knows how to talk, for
the most part, but there are still some phrases he uses that puzzles us.
Phrases like *ICH-ih-MAH*, that continue to perplex us. While we had him
as a captive audience at the dinner table, we decided to explore this
phrase that has puzzled us since Rodney started talking.

"Rodney, what does *ICH-ih-MAH* mean?" Marissa asked. Rodney nodded
while chewing. "Yeah," he said. "/ICH-ih-MAHHHHHH," he replied, drawing
out the last sound as if he was correcting Marissa's pronunciation.
"What does it mean?" Marissa repeated. Rodney furrowed his brow, then
repeated it more slowly. *ICH-IH-MAHHHH*. He held his hand in a claw out
in front of him, like he wanted to grab my wife's mouth. We're already
aware he likes to grab our mouths when he wants our attention, and we
figured they were loosely correlated. We were just hoping to unravel
some of the mystery behind what the phrase meant. But that's as far as
we got. After we finished eating, we threw in the towel. "Did you know
he can't say *gorilla*?" Marissa remarked. Rodney perked up and repeated
it: *OKILLA?*

We put Rodney to bed, then spent some time tidying up the house. Marissa
left to pick up her dad from the airport around 11, and I decided to use
the hour before bed to make a turkey brine, which turned out to be a
really fun recipe. The recipe I was going for called for 1 cup of brown
sugar and 1 cup of kosher salt per gallon of water. I had a 5 gallon
bucket, and I figured I wanted to fill 4 gallons, trusting the 18 pound
turkey's volume would account for the rest. At first, I went down the
path of trying to calculate the turkey's exact volume from the average
density of turkey meat - which is really a thing, it turns out people
who deep fry their turkey absolutely need to know this - but I gave up
and just decided to estimate.

So I already calculated I needed 4 cups of sugar and 4 cups of salt.
Here's where it got interesting. I definitely didn't have room to store
4 gallons of liquid in my fridge, so my task was to find the minimum
amount of water it took to dissolve the sugar and salt, trusting I'd be
able to dilute it later in the five gallon bucket. It took ten cups of
water, which would work out perfectly, filling up my largest Tupperware
bin to the brim. The other tricky part, of course, was simmering the
peppercorns, bay leaves, and garlic cloves without boiling the solution.
Boiling it would lose water to steam, and then I'd risk letting the salt
and sugar fall out of the solution.

Marissa came home with her Dad just a little after 11:20 - we had the
perfect amount of time to catch up at the dining room table with a glass
of wine and some reheated pizza. We talked for about an hour and a half,
then sleepily retreated up to our room to bed.

Today, after eating a big breakfast (and introducing Chris to the
wonders of the Dutch Baby), we have a big placeholder in the late
morning for doing something fun with Rodney. Right now, going to the
downtown science museum is at the top of the list. Afterwards, we're
going to go for a walk around the Atwood neighborhood and drop off some
more fliers, then finally swing by the Jenny street grocery store to
pick up dinner. We may stop and get lunch along the way - the Jenny
Street grocery store is right next to a great Laotian restaurant.

So that's what I got today. For now, I'm trying to bribe my wife into
making the trip to Moka so I can feel human again. Hope you all have a
wonderful weekend. I offer you these sincere, solemn parting words -
*ICH-IH-MAH*.

