---
title: kubernetes, ottomans, stickers, and birthdays
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. Hope you're feeling good this morning and ready
to start another work week. The weather is beautiful today. It looks
like up by us, we should be hanging out in the low seventies & high
sixties all week. I might even finally get to bust out some cozy
sweaters. Which would be a good thing about now - I went a little crazy
with the snacking last night, and this morning I get the feeling that my
stomach enters the room before I do. I also had a bit too much beer. I
decided to treat myself to a six pack of imported Oktoberfest beer from
the liquor store, and I really liked the taste and decided to keep the
party rolling. But nothing that a little coffee and journaling can't
fix.

Yesterday I spent most of the day hacking on my chores website. I'm
deploying it on a little kubernetes cluster I've made with some old
raspberry pi's I no longer need. Because the newer models come out so
frequently and the specs basically double with each new model, I wanted
to give the computers a nice, productive place to retire. I've even
named the cluster "the farm", just to round off the metaphor. At the
moment, it's just two nodes, but as soon as I upgrade my desktop to the
Pi 4, I'll be able to add a third node.

Even though Kubernetes has been around for a while, I'm still pretty new
to everything. The project has been moving a little slowly for that
reason, but it's important work. With whatever is going on in tech, I've
noticed that new skills and knowledge don't really stick with me until I
incorporate it into a home project. I've been wanting to step up my
kubernetes know-how for a while, and I'm grateful that I finally have
the time and a good project for it. Last night I finally got everything
stable. The database is up and running, saving data to a persistent
disk, and there's a web server that fires up a django app. Lastly,
there's a proxy that - at the moment - just kicks all requests to the
web server.

In between all the hacking yesterday, we went to church, grabbed lunch
at Chipotle, ran some errands, and at an impulse we bought a new
ottoman. We pulled it right off the shelf at target and dropped it on
top of the cart, like we were barbarians pillaging a conquered village.
Our old ottoman had loose wooden legs, and we were getting frustrated
with how small it was. Sunday naps are serious business, and if you
don't have enough ottoman space for the whole family, then you should
consider getting a bigger one too.

After we put Rodney to bed, Marissa and I hung out on the porch for a
while. There was a sticker price tag from hobby lobby that had fallen on
the ground during some schlepping, and for some reason Ziggy became
obsessed with it. She was fearful at first, stalking this sticker on the
ground and sheepishly craning her neck to sniff it, then she'd jump
back, bobbing her head like an MMA fighter. She spent about fifteen
minutes doing this. She was scared of it, but you could tell that she
wanted to conquer her fear and see what this sticker was all about,
which was endearing, and great entertainment for a quiet night on the
porch. Ziggy did eventually get over her fear - so much so that she ate
the sticker, and we had to intervene, pulling it out of her mouth and
hiding it from sight. Dogs are weird, aren't they?

After time on the porch, I did some more editing for Marissa. I've got a
bit of a video editing backlog, so I'm also trying to chip away at it
and keep her fans happy. Last night to my disappointment, Instagram took
down the first version because of the music, so all that time I spent
lining up the camera cut with the beat drop in Frank Ocean's [Mitsubishi
Sony] was wasted. The footage still looked great though. If you watch
the time lapse on her Instagram, please play the song in the background
- it was a great pick and I'm bummed it didn't slip by.

Today should be a regular week. Tonight, the Bears are playing the
Redskins, and this Sunday I'm turning 29, so Birthday shenanigans will
likely take place this weekend. As of now, I still don't have any ideas
for how to celebrate, other than just hanging out, drinking some beer,
and maybe cooking an elaborate dinner. So in other words, nothing that
separates it from a regular late summer weekend. I'll keep racking my
brain though. I'm sure the family would like to do something fun, and
you only turn 29 once in your life.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today, and a great rest of the week.
Thanks for reading.

  [Mitsubishi Sony]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJqhgU1WQb8

