---
title: movember, ki gong, starbucks, and fire extinguishers
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone. Hope you're doing well today on this sunny,
chilly Tuesday morning. Last night, my wife cut my hair, and keeping the
personal grooming momentum going, I also shaved - but not the beard. I'm
growing things out for no-shave-november. A few weeks ago, my coworker
sent me a link to our work's "Movember" charity team and I joined. I
think the idea is that a bunch of guys grow silly mustaches and beards,
and people donate money to charity in approval. I'm happy to tag a long
for the ride, especially if now I get a more concrete excuse to look
like a wild man all month. So enjoy the clean shaven me while you still
can, things are going to get hairy this month - all for charity of
course.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. I had plenty of things to do in the
morning, including filing for paternity leave in the spring, figuring
out insurance stuff, and going to a few meetings, but I remembered to
make time for the half hour Ki Gong session on the ninth floor. I was
delighted to find that Justin, our instructor, switched up the routine a
bit. After the half hour of meditative movements and breathing, I
commended him for the new set. "That routine was created by a Chinese
general in the year 1000," he explained. "It was designed to keep their
archers relaxed, and to give relief to the men who had been marching all
day in heavy armor." I suddenly had a clear picture in my head. As part
of the session, we breathed deeply while miming a bow and arrow, and we
bounced on our toes, stamping our heels into the ground. I can't say I
was wearing heavy armor, or marching all day at the bidding of a
warlord, but maybe my suffering as an office worker compares if we're
willing to embellish the metaphorical route. "But still useful to us -
we all still march in heavy armor, in our own way," I said smugly. "How
philosophical!" Justin laughed.

I grabbed lunch at Starbucks. I asked them to heat up a ham and swiss
pannini, and I ordered an iced tea. Eating at Starbucks is a guilty
pleasure, but I'm more in it for the nostalgia than for the food itself.
It takes me back to working late nights, skimming an extra sandwich off
the 'expired' pile and finding a quite corner of the store to spend my
lunch. Even though I'm in a different place working a much different
job, quietly eating my pannini in Starbucks feels exactly the same - if
not a little better, since I'm no longer limited to the sandwiches that
expired.

After work, Marissa, Rodney, and I went to Hy-Vee to pick up dinner. The
deal was that I would wait in line to get a flu shot while Marissa and
Rodney picked up supplies for taco dinner. I filled out some paperwork,
then waited almost a whole hour. Marissa and Rodney waited with me for
the last ten minutes before Marissa finally gave me the *lets get the
hell out of here* eyes. Even though I had every right to throw a little
salt at the lady behind the counter, my Midwestern sensibilities got the
best of me. "I'm really sorry," I said. "I ordered a flu shot, but we
gotta get goin', really sorry about this."

I watched TV on the couch with Rod while Marissa made tacos. It was a
wonderful meal, and it hit the spot. For all the cooking we do, I don't
have a very deep bench when it comes to Mexican food, so tacos - even
simply made with ground beef, cheese, lettuce, and tomatoes - have an
exciting presence on our dinner table.

We put Rod to bed, then I got to work on chores. Last night was the
first night I tried my new Monday through Thursday nesting 'power hour'.
Marissa rolled her eyes when she saw it on our family calendar. "You
should move that to your calendar - it makes us look a lot busier than
we are," she said. That was a fair ask.

For power hour, I cleaned the landing by our back door, which had kind
of turned into an awkward little dumping ground for things stuck in
limbo between the basement and the main floor. The middle shelf was
spilling out with half empty boxes of garbage bags and parchment paper,
and the bottom shelf was filled with swiffer wet jet refills that -
ironically - were covered in dust and dog hair. After I had finished
that corner, I made my way to under the sink. It wasn't nearly as bad as
I thought it would be. We just had a few nearly empty bottles of
cleaning solution that we no longer used, and an expired fire
extinguisher. I smiled when I saw the gauge resting on 'empty/expired'.
That meant that I could play with it outside before discarding it.

Standing in the middle of the street, I aimed, pulled the plastic tag,
and squeezed the lever. A chalky white dust leaked out onto the street,
catching the wind and vanishing into the night. Very anticlimactic, but
I was grateful to have this disappointing experience without a blazing
kitchen fire in the mix.

After chores and haircuts, Marissa and I sat down at the computer to
figure out our shared calendar for the month of December. I let her
drive this time, so the planning wouldn't be sidetracked by when we eat
breakfast and when the Bears play.

We concluded the night by watching a few minutes of *The Karate Kid*,
which is another one of those movies that I've deceived myself into
thinking I've already watched it. I'm pretty sure this movie is
completely new to me, so no spoilers, OK? I'll tell you one thing - I
have a feeling that rude maintenance worker he met in the apartment
building will be coming back in the story, he seemed interesting.

That's what I got today! Hope you have a great day today. Whatever
"armor" you're wearing and wherever you're "marching", make sure you
take some time today to breathe, empty your head, and shake out all the
stress, the Ki Gong way. Thanks for reading.

