---
title: nazi zombies, lion king, and paposa
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday! Yesterday, Marissa, Rodney, and I saw the new Lion King
movie, and I'm pleased to report it was pretty good. As I've covered
before, I'm not especially invested in Disney movies, so the real test
is what Marissa and Rodney thought of it - and they loved it. I don't
know - I guess I was expecting them to mess with the movie a bit more.
They threw in a few new jokes (the Beauty and the Beast reference was
hilarious and totally unexpected), but it was clear that Disney knew how
important this movie was to people and didn't take any risks with it.

When we got home, Rodney immediately fell asleep as the popcorn coma was
starting to set in, and we had a pretty low key evening. Marissa
painted, I caught up on chores, then we reconvened at 11 to play Nazi
Zombies. For the uninitiated, *Nazi Zombies* is a mini game in the *Call
of Duty* where you and a buddy cooperatively fight off hoards of Nazi
Zombies. There's a bit of strategy involved in defending the windows of
the house and gaining points to spend on a random weapon dispenser. But
the game has become a real staple in our married home life. We talk
about the day, plan things, and reflect on life - all over the dulcet
sounds of gunfire and gnashing zombie teeth.

This morning, we just got done eating breakfast. We had some scrambled
eggs on toast. Later this morning after I shower, I'm going to take
Rodney to the market and pick up stuff to make *paposa*. It's
essentially chuck roast rubbed in garlic and pepper corns and braised in
red wine all day. Really, it takes all day to make, so if I get it on
the stove around 12:30, that's actually cutting it pretty close. The
upside is your house smells like - well - chuck roast braised in red
wine all day.

Hope you all have a wonderful weekend. Relax, unwind, and cook something
that you would only have time for on a hot, lazy Saturday like today.

