---
title: computers, evil ai, bad cgi, and kidscode
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! This morning, my text editor is looking crisp
and lovely. It's good to be back on a regular ol' HDMI cable. For those
who might not remember, for the last week or so, I broke my computer
while updating the BIOS and suddenly it was no longer able to boot with
HDMI, and as a temporary workaround I've been using a HDMI to VGA
dongle. If you can't picture what that plug looks like in your head,
it's that wide ugly one with the little screws on either side. And in
addition to looking gross and cluttering up the desk, we've been without
audio and limping by with a fuzzy resolution. Last night, Marissa
groaned while trying to get audio to play out of a two foot AUX cord and
our tiny speaker. She wanted to watch Harry Potter while painting
frames.

For a week of "everything's on fire", it felt good to finally get a win
and start fighting back. And getting the dining room computer working is
important, since that's where every day begins (it's where I write these
entries). Well, I use the term 'working' loosely. HDMI and audio work,
but while kicking the tires last night I discovered that Steam remote
play no longer works. When I try to connect from the TV, I get all the
audio and a solid black screen. That's the way these things are -
computers are like whack-a-mole. Once you find an arrangement that fixes
something, another problem arises. It's like every computer in your
house has to have a minimum entropy, or *bad mojo*, if you will. And
fixing the resolution last night squeezed that bad mojo somewhere else -
thankfully somewhere less critical. All that means for me is come
Sunday, I'll have to watch the Bears game on our TV with a half closed
laptop within cable range.

Incidentally, that's why I'm not too worried about computers gaining too
much intelligence and enslaving us. We all know that tech companies have
a long way to go before they make anything that good. My Samsung Smart
TV still gets amnesia whenever we turn it out. Marissa's phone still
crashes whenever she gets a voicemail. My phone runs out of disk space
whenever I get a software update (no doubt because all the old updates
are taking up the space). My macbook at work has been plugged into the
same monitor for almost four years, and it forgets everything about it
once a week. Oh, and just to bring it home, anything and everything
about Microsoft.

If you ask me, a more likely scenario is that the machines have already
taken over, and we're living in the Matrix. And in order for that to
work, all of our tech would have to mysteriously break and stagnate for
as long as possible under the guise of "innovation" and "progress". What
I fear more than our tech getting too good is that our tech hasn't
actually changed - only the way we spin it and sell it to people.

Machine learning is not AI. Sticking a wireless card in a toaster or a
fridge does not make it smarter, it's just yet another thing that breaks
when your Internet goes down. And streaming services are really just
cable with extra steps.

If you couldn't tell, Marissa and I are in the throws of a Matrix
trilogy marathon. Last night we just finished the second installment.
Those movies are better than I remember. When I was younger, I watched
it mostly for the fight scenes - I think I even used to just fast
forward through the dialog. But it holds up. The writing can be a little
wordy at times, but it's a fascinating movie if you pay attention.

And ironically, watching the movie in 2019, it's some of the fighting
scenes that are laughable. Whenever neo does something unnatural, like
float in the air, you can see the texture of his skin and hair smoothen
out while they swap in the CGI version of him right in front of you.
"It's like watching an old screensaver kick on in the middle of the
movie," we heckled.

And yes, in this entry I'm aware of the irony that I make the argument
that tech might not be getting any better, then go on to mock how bad
CGI in movies used to look. CGI has gotten a lot better. Perhaps CGI
will get so good that it will enslave humanity.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. I hit the ticket duty backlog
hard, but I took a midday break to grab lunch with Rob. We ordered a
pair of Zombie Dust beers, and I got a little basket of hot wings. Hot
wings and beer are such a classic combination, and I'd challenge you to
scour the culinary universe for a better pairing.

After work, I hung around the house with Marissa until kids code
started. On Thursday, we joke that I get the "Kids Code scaries". Since
I have to leave the house around 5:30, that leaves me with a little less
than a half hour, and since I don't know what to do with myself I just
pace around the house in anticipation. It has less to do with the event
itself, and more to do with the fact that I just have to go somewhere
and be social.

Kids Code was wonderful. The closest thing I had that resembled a lesson
plan was "make a game that involves a Turkey". Some kids actually took
me up on the challenge. One kid made a turkey edition of "duck hunt",
but most kids just wisely scribbled a small turkey in the corner of
their game so they'd qualify.

The linux laptops were pretty popular yesterday. One regular club member
wanted to install something on the Windows laptops we have, and was
disappointed that we didn't have the admin password for the library
computers (trust me, I don't want the admin password either - with great
power comes great responsibility, right?). "We can't install it on
there, but want one of the linux laptops? We have the root password, and
you can pretty much do whatever you want."

Marshall hadn't heard of linux, but he was intrigued. As he clicked
around, he asked me a few more questions. "How much does it cost? How do
you get it on a laptop?" As I explained to him that it's well-document,
universally accepted as the standard in most engineering disciplines,
and completely free-as-in-beer, his eyes widened with wonder. He made
the same kind of face that neo did when Morpheus said *welcome to the
REAL world*.

That's my time, everyone. Thanks for reading. Hope you have a wonderful
Friday.

