---
title: cooking, babish, wednesdays, and concert on the square
---

Dear Journal,

Yesterday was very productive. I think I finally got the catch-up day
that I needed. In the morning I beefed up the first few weeks of planned
work for the summer interns, then I made an agenda for our first
meeting. I went for a quick trot around the square and picked up some
food from a food cart. It was a new one that I have never tried - a food
card called "braisen hussies" or something like that. I brought the
braised pork rice bowl back to my desk. It was pretty good, the black
beans and rice were really tasty, and it even had little bits of pork
rinds sprinkled throughout. While I ate my lunch, I watched some recipe
videos to plan dinner and pick something to make for Wednesday's concert
on the square.

At first, I was thinking about making [Babish's Chicken Quesadillas]. I
made them once before, and although they were a little involved, they
turned out pretty good. But half way through the watching the video
again, it was starting to look like a poor choice for Tuesday night.
It's a solid recipe, but cutting and marinating chicken, frying the
chicken, dicing and sauteeing vegetables, assembling the quesadillas,
and then finally frying the quesadillas sounded like too much work for a
weekday, especially since I had another meal to cook afterwards. In the
end, I decided to just toss some cod fillets in breadcrumbs and fry them
for dinner. For concert on the square, I had a fun idea to make
vegetarian crunchwrap supremes. They have this meatless chorizo made
from soy that looks (and tastes) a lot like ground beef, and getting
vegetarian refried beans is just a matter of finding a can without lard
listed in the ingredients. I set out all the ingredients, including the
meatless chorizo which I jazzed up with some taco seasoning and olive
oil, and Marissa formed them into little tortilla polygons while I made
some guac.

After carefully setting the tower of crunchwrap supremes in the fridge,
we settled in on the couch to knock out another episode of Stranger
Things. We watched the second to last episode, and as expected, there
were some more odd choices in the plot line that had us really
scratching our heads. I'll also add that there are some serious pacing
issues - for being the second to last episode in the season, things got
really slow all of the sudden.

Today, I'm working from home. This will be my last work-from-home
Wednesday in a while, so I'll be sure to savor this one and get a lot of
work done. Marissa has agility class this morning, so it's just me and
the Rod man hanging out. After she gets back, we're going to walk to
Glass Nickel for lunch and a beer. Usually after lunch on Wednesdays,
Marissa and Rodney take a nap on the couch and I finish the workday
while playing a movie in the background. Today, I'm feeling *Mad Max:
Fury Road*. Seriously, that's a movie that I feel like watching any
time, any day. At some point in the afternoon before we leave for
concert on the square, I have to fry those little tortilla polygons in
butter. And maybe eat one. As - you know - quality assurance. What kind
of lunatic would bring food to share without tasting it first?

So that's Wednesday. I can't believe the week is already half over.
Here's to a fast week and a slow weekend. OK team, let's have a
Wednesday!

  [Babish's Chicken Quesadillas]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0G5Y2SOW0c

