---
title: thunderstorms, bulgogi, and pto
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Friday to you, reader. Wasn't the rain
beautiful last night? By us, the gentle thunder continued into most of
the night, providing a great soundtrack for evening work and relaxation.
However, not everyone enjoyed the rain. Rodney had trouble falling
asleep, being scared of the thunder. Marissa gave him a quick snuggle
and tucked him in, assuring him that the noises outside were just like
music. After Marissa went back into her studio, I heard his quiet voice
sleepily repeat "it's music" just a few more times before drifting off
for the night. Mom's are the best, aren't they?

Yesterday was a pretty busy work day, but I got my work done, and in the
last thirty minutes of the day instead of attending Thursday's happy
hour on the lower floor, I prepared to make [bulgogi]. I watched the
video a few times, made a grocery list, and planned out the timeline.
The recipe involved making a marinade from grated onions, garlic,
ginger, brown sugar, pears, and hot pepper paste, then using the mixture
to soak and soften thin strips of beef for exactly one hour - a
difficult feat for a weeknight meal. On the bus ride home, I sent
Marissa a slack message warning her that I would be moving pretty fast
when I got home, sacrificing the usual five minutes I take to put my
stuff down and play with the dogs while we catch up.

At 4:58 PM, I walked in the door and trotted upstairs to wake Rodney up.
He was in a deep nap, and a little groggy, but I told him we were going
to Hy-Vee and he rallied. These days, he likes taking his large giant
stuffed giraffe on our grocery store trips, which isn't nearly as
distracting as you might think.

Rodney, Giraffe, and I hit the road and got to Hy-Vee at 5:15 PM. We
made a quick lap around the store picking up what we needed for the
marinade, and Rodney grabbed some goldfish to snack on as well. Rodney
is pretty helpful at Hy-Vee - he stays by my side, or sits down below on
the lip of the cart, sometimes getting up to take direction and put
things in the basket. By 5:26 PM, we were heading through the parking
lot back to the car.

We pulled into the driveway at 5:35 PM. That gave me about 15 minutes
before I had to get the beef in the marinade. Before I even put the
groceries away, I was grating onion, garlic, and ginger, which gave me a
good cry, and felt pretty nice. By 5:45 PM, I started to slice the
steak, and 5:50 PM the prep was finished, steak happily resting in the
fridge in a slurry of deliciousness. I breathed a sigh of relief,
plopping down on the couch with Marissa and Rod to have our postponed
daily catch up.

The rest of the bulgogi recipe was pretty simple. I made some rice, then
spent the rest of the hour preparing to make a lot of smoke. The recipe
calls for searing the strips of beef in cast iron heated to literally
the hottest temperature your stove can reach. Marissa helped me open up
all the windows, and I took the batteries out of the smoke detector.

After an hour, while wearing my BBQ heat proof mits, I started to sear
the beef. It made a wonderful sound, as a plume of wet delicious steam
billowed toward the ceiling. I did my best to sear each piece for two
minutes per side, but I overcrowded the pan just a bit, so I did my
best. Dinner was ready by 7 PM on the dot, and even though I didn't get
nearly as much delicious brown crust as I would have liked, there was
enough to prove the recipe worked - a great home recipe peeking through
a minor setback. And even though the timing was just a bit too tight for
a weekday dinner, there's always the weekend. Next time, I'll try
marinating the beef for longer and searing the strips in smaller
batches.

After dinner, Marissa spent time in the studio painting, and I hacked a
bit on my blog. I added a "streak calculator" to the home page, which
measures how many consecutive days I've made a journal entry. I also re
enabled my RSS feed, which was a bit startling because the automation
started spamming my twitter and slack, spuriously sending out updates
for every entry I've made in the last week.

Today will be kind of a strange day. I scheduled some vacation time for
the second half of the work day, planning on heading to Chicago with
Marissa for a party, but Marissa is not feeling well, so we cancelled.
But the whole thing happened pretty recently, and I didn't have time to
remove my PTO entry, so I'm still going to take a half day off. And
that's fine, I had a pretty busy week of work, and I'll happily use the
time to walk somewhere with Marissa and Rod and enjoy the afternoon.

Hope you have a wonderful day today. Remember, thunderstorms are just
like music, and open all the windows in your house before making Korean
BBQ beef.

  [bulgogi]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2LyD3sNegE

