---
title: relaxation, cartoons, and dutch babies
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and happy Saturday to everyone! Last night was as mellow
as it could be, and exactly what I needed after a long work week. After
making our usual Friday night pizza, I put Rodney to bed, packed up some
leftovers, then Marissa and I climbed under a blanket and watched New
Girl. I entered a deep state of coziness, keeping my neck and back
perfectly straight and not moving any of my limbs. I felt like I was in
a deep sleep, only with the added bonus of getting to watch TV instead
of dream, and occasionally laugh aloud.

We emerged from our TV watching cocoon sometime around 12:30PM and
immediately sauntered upstairs to bed. This morning, feeling utterly
refreshed, I jumped out of bet a little earlier than usual so I could
clean up after dinner and make breakfast. I attempted to make a Dutch
Baby, which wasn't nearly as perilous as I expected. I clarified some
butter, whipped up a quick batter in a blender, then poured the batter
into the center of a hot cast-iron pan. The batter and butter hissed
angrily, and it reminded me of the scene from the Wizard of Oz where
(spoiler alert) the witch melts. A hot, evil, wet mess went into the
oven, but twenty minutes later it was a golden brown, doughy
breakfast-flavored cloud. Completely on par with all of Chef John's
recipes, this [Dutch Baby recipe] was fool-proof, and an instant
favorite.

Rodney, Marissa, and I ate breakfast at the table, then made our way to
the couch to watch some cartoons. After a quick journal entry, I'm going
to shower, then take Rodney out to grab some lunch and some groceries.
Marissa was stuck with him all day yesterday at her agility trial (which
Ziggy absolutely nailed - two qualifying runs in one day!), so we agreed
to fit as much dad time in today as possible.

Let's have a Saturday. Make a dutch baby, watch some cartoons, and go
for a walk. We can clean up the kitchen later, there's no hurry.

  [Dutch Baby recipe]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kyxEFj7bgHI

