---
title: french fries, cheesesteak, and ice cream
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Saturday. This morning, I'm up a little
early to get a jump on things. By 10 AM, we hope to have the car packed
and ready to hit the road. This weekend, Marissa is having a meet and
greet at a restaurant up in Minnesota, so if you happen to be in the
lovely little city of Rochester this afternoon, stop by Forager brewery
and say hi!

Even though we will probably be in a hurry this morning, I still blended
the ingredients together for a Dutch baby. At the moment, my cast iron
pan is heating up in the oven with clarified butter. The plan is to
write a journal entry, then dump the batter in, and twenty minutes later
I'll just casually sit it out on the table to tempt Marissa and Rodney
while we're packing up. The great thing about breakfast is you never
need to ask permission to make it.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. Throughout the day, I got two
packages delivered to me at work. They were two pieces to the new
computer case I'm going to try on the router. I felt very obnoxious
folding the big stack of cardboard at my desk. My boss teased, "what do
you think this is the UPS store?" The open air case will have to wait
until Sunday, I didn't get a chance to break it open yesterday.

When I got home, Marissa was teetering on the edge of a nap. Rodney was
climbing on her, and even the dogs looked annoyed. "Want to go to
Hy-Vee, dude?" I asked, as Marissa's sleepy eyes lit up.

Rodney and I drove to Hy-Vee, and we took our time. I let him check out
the new holiday toy aisle, we snacked on some bread, and we looked
through the kitchen section for a funnel. We didn't find it. The Hy-Vee
kitchen utensils section has an amazing way of disappointing me every
time, no matter what I'm looking for. We did, however, pick up some
potatoes, a sirloin steak, cream cheese, kimchi, and sandwich buns. It
was philly cheese steak night, but this time I wasn't going to succumb
to usual bag of frozen french fries - I was going to try to make my own.

When we got home, Marissa was still asleep on the couch, so I did my
best to keep Rodney busy in the kitchen. We peeled the potatoes, then
cut them into fry shapes, which wasn't nearly as hard as I thought it
would be. For a while, I've assumed that there was a difficult trick to
cutting every type of vegetable, and that has held me back. I've found
instead that most of them just come down to common sense - just picture
what you want to end up with, and try something.

We tossed the delicate little shoestring shaped potatoes in some cold
water and rinsed, then dumped them out onto a paper towel. I put Rodney
on drying duty. He tamped them dry with more paper towels as I dumped
two bottles of corn oil into my Dutch oven. We slipped the fries into
the cold oil. Rodney threw the last few in from as high as he could, and
the oil splashed onto my face. "PERFECT," he yelled as I dabbed the oil
off of my nose and chin. I clicked the stove to HIGH and we moved on to
the steak. Rodney helped me salt the steak while I flipped and dried it,
then we threw it on to some smoking hot olive oil in my biggest pan. As
it seared, we chopped some white onions. Rodney actually managed to chop
one of the onion quarters in half with a butter knife. He handed me the
chunks, then started to rub his eyes. "Dad, crying?" I looked at him,
and saw a tear rolling down his face. I laughed. "Oh dude, cutting
onions makes you cry. You're crying, even though you're not sad. Isn't
that weird?" He repeated the fun fact aloud to himself a few more times.

We dropped the slices of white onion around the steak and seasoned with
salt. The kitchen air started to bloom with the aroma of burning meat
and onions. Rodney and I cut the sandwich buns. After I finished cutting
the middle out of two of them, I looked over and saw Rodney was just
ripping one of them up into pieces. "Oh nice dude, that's PERFECT," I
said as I moved the other buns out of his reach. That one would keep him
busy for a while. I was happy we bought a small french load to split
while shopping, because I was able to use the rest of it for the missing
sandwich bun.

The steak finished cooking, and Rodney and I combined cream cheese, the
grilled onions, sliced steak, provolone cheese, chopped kimchi, and just
a squirt of Korean hot pepper paste. Marissa joined us in the kitchen
after emerging from her nap. Just as I was sliding the assembled
sandwiches into the oven, I glanced over at the fries. To my delight,
they were golden brown, floating on top the oil. They took about 45
minutes, and at no time did I have to measure the temp of the oil or
adjust the heat. I scooped the fries onto a paper towel and sprinkled
them liberally with salt. Marissa and I sampled one, and in the best way
possible they tasted like they were fresh from the McDonald's across the
street.

We sat down and ate dinner, then spent an extra twenty minutes at the
table goofing around and eating some ice cream for dessert. I grabbed
baby giraffe and put on an impromptu puppet show in the kitchen, using
my arm to make it look like the giraffe was snatching my hat off my
head. "It's funny because even though I can see your whole arm and
elbow, Rodney thinks it's hilarious," Marissa remarked.

After Rodney went to bed, Marissa and I caught up on chores, then
finished the night off by watching the Matirx. I fell asleep on the
couch with Ziggy in my lap. It was a good night.

That's what I got today. Hope you all have a great weekend. As for me, I
probably need to get this Dutch baby in the oven and start waking my
family. We need to hit the road in about an hour and a half. Thanks for
reading, everyone.

