---
title: halloween
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone - and Happy November 1st! It's exciting to begin
a new month, even if this next month will be darker, colder, and a
little busier. From the last time we glanced at our calendar, Marissa
and I realized that this coming weekend is the last empty one we have in
a while. For us, November will be lots of driving, visiting, hosting,
and - of course - cooking.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. I wore my Spider-Man suit all day,
and had a lot of fun doing regular things with my mask on. I kept it on
my desk all day, and I put it on to get coffee refills, attend meetings,
and pick up lunch from Quizno's. In the morning, I went down to the
seventh floor for a bagel and mimosa with my teammate Josh, who was
dressed like a vampire. While mingling, I bumped into an IT guy, who was
also dressed liked Spider-Man. And despite our costumes, you could
definitely tell we both worked in the tech sector because we immediately
- instinctively - re-enacted that one Spider-Man meme where [they are
pointing at eachother]. After work, I took Rodney to the grocery store.
He was pretty upset with me that I didn't wear the mask while driving,
and I was having a hard time getting across why that would be a bad
idea.

We wanted to have plenty of time for trick or treating, so just picked
up some pasta, red sauce, and pancietta. And of course, We got plenty of
chuckles and high fives wandering around Hy-Vee. One thing I started to
pick up on was how awkward people can be about acknowledging your
Halloween costume. It felt like people ran up to me and spoke before
they thought about what to say. People would just point, or run up to me
and make a noise, like *AHHHHH*. I think what learned from yesterday is
that the best thing to do when you see an exotic costume out in the wild
is to just enjoy it from a distance. Or at the very least, keep your
cool. As Rodney and I paid for our groceries, the cashier very calmly
asked "Did you find everything alright, Spider-Man?" Finally, some
respect for the mask.

When we got home, I cooked pasta while Marissa wrestled Rodney into half
of his suit. You'd think he would have learned to associate
"uncomfortable costume" with "limitless chocolate and candy" by now, but
he was just as reluctant about wearing it as he was the day before.
Meanwhile, in full super hero regalia, I was browning pancietta and
grating parmesan cheese.

We ate dinner, then Rodney and I decided to hit the streets. A few trick
or treaters came by before dinner, but things had really started to slow
down. Rodney and I bundled up, and Marissa agreed to stay behind and man
the door. Rodney and I walked a few houses up our street. There were
some neighbors standing outside by a little campfire, and they
approached us with a bowl of candy. Rodney was silently upset, so I did
most of the talking. They gave Rodney some candy, then my neighbor
turned to me and asked, "You want a beer Spider-Man?" He filled a red
cup from a miniature keg and handed it to me. "I can promise you, it's
cold," he laughed.

Rodney and I visited a few more houses, but he seems pretty upset. I
stopped on the sidewalk and asked him what was wrong. He whimpered
something about getting momma. "Do you want to go home and get momma?"
His eyes lit up as he took the initiative and started walking home.

We knocked on our door. From the window, I saw Marissa spring up off the
couch, pausing *The Office* reruns. "I think he's mad we left you at
home," I reported.

"Oh thank goodness," Marissa said in a sigh of relief. "No trick or
treaters, and I was starting to get bored. I was actually cleaning out
my inbox."

We jumped in the car and drove a little further down the street, parking
by a small cluster of festively decorated houses. There were more
neighbors standing outside by a fire. Rodney, who was in silent protest
up until now, was suddenly running his mouth and babbling about
costumes, candy, and trick or treating. He proudly marched up the steps
of the next house, leaving us behind. As the neighbor dropped some candy
in his bucket, he waved and said HAPPY HALLOWEEN. "Well look who's
suddenly Mr. Halloween over here," I teased.

We hit a few more houses until the cold got the best of us. We went
home, emptied our candy onto the table, then snapped a few pictures of
us in costume. We took a few of each other, then spent about five
minutes trying to set up the camera on the stairs with a timer so we
could get a family shot. As these things usually work out, the picture
we spent the most time on getting was the most unusable. Kind of
unsettling actually. We're off center, a bit out of focus, and Rodney
looks perturbed. Like a bizarre man & wife Spider-Man kidnapping ransom
photo.

We snacked on candy and watched a little more of Frozen. After Rodney's
eyes started to droop, I put him to bed and changed out of my costume.
After wearing the spandex suit for literally the entire day, it felt
good to change into regular clothes.

I cleaned the kitchen, then Marissa and I crashed on the couch to watch
some YouTube. We watched a cooking video for making forest mushroom
cream sauce, then Nick Offerman's Hot Ones interview. We closed out the
night by finishing our movie pick *Romeo & Juliet* - the Leonardo
DiCaprio version.

So that's what I got. Today is a regular work day. Heading into the
weekend, I'm very mindful of how precious an empty Saturday is. Marissa
and I are still racking our brains for how to spend it, but at the very
worst, we're just going to hang around the house, and maybe cook some
mushroom and cream sauce tonight.

Have a great day, everyone. Oh, and I just noticed I journaled every day
in October. For those of you who read every journal in October, thanks
for the loyalty. Here's to beginning a colder, darker, heartier month!

  [they are pointing at eachother]: https://i.imgur.com/1WU8ron.jpg

