---
title: analytics, turkey sandwhiches, cyan pepper, and recording music
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're feeling good this morning. Today
it's already drizzling a bit. The street is glistening with rain from
last night, but it's somehow still so chilly it feels like it could snow
at any second. In other words, it's prime hoodie weather. This morning,
I'm wearing my unofficial/official winter work outfit comprised of my
favorite black hoodie and my favorite black sweatpants. These pants are
great because with a little bit of work, you can create an illusion with
the rest of the outfit that they're anything but sweatpants. But I know
the truth - that I just get away with wearing sweatpants all day. So
coziness is at an all time high.

It feels nice to begin another week of work. We're entering into what
will probably be the longest stint of continuous, regular work hours for
me this holiday season. I have two weeks, and one of those weeks I'm on
ticket duty. Ticket duty always puts me in a working mood, so I'm hoping
that spills over into my personal life and gives me some much needed
vigor in catching up on Christmas shopping. Who do I have to buy
presents for? That's a good question. My wife handles all the actual
presents, so I'm mainly talking about the secret santas in my life. But
I take secret santa very seriously - whether it's a complete stranger on
the Internet or a friend from college.

Yesterday was a pretty wonderful day. In the morning, Marissa added my
journal entry about the gallery, and I got a pretty remarkable and
exciting spike in traffic, so that was fun. I try to respect my wife's
online identity and give her space with it, but needless to say, I
appreciate and will gladly accept the ol' Astuary Art bump any time
she's handing it out.

So all morning, taking breaks to glance at the analytics, I cooked
breakfast and finished tidying up the house. Around lunch time, I took
Rodney to the grocery store. Being away from our house for so long this
weekend, are fridge was looking a little scarce, and that wouldn't do
for the upcoming week. We picked up supplies to make dinner, along with
some good ol' fashioned turkey sandwich ingredients.

After we got home, I got to making lunch. Rodney considered helping me
in the kitchen, but then retracted his offer, deciding he was too tired
an needed some time to recharge on the couch. I happily obliged - his
apologetic and conscientious attitude was pretty cute. In his own words,
he said "\[gibberish\] uh, Dada - Rodney uh watch Blippi I sorry."

"NoooO prawwwblim," I said, doing my best to translate the sentiment in
his own words.

We ate turkey sandwiches and watched Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer. I'm
embarrassed to say that was yet another childhood classic I missed out
on, and seeing it yesterday was my absolute first time watching the
movie. I had assumed it was all (*spoiler alert*) about how Rudolph
bears the burden of a silly red glowing nose then finds out how useful
it is when Santa has to navigate a snowstorm, but I also assumed that
they don't go into more detail than what's provided in the song. The
side plots of him joining Reindeer school, finding a reindeer school
sweet heart, getting bullied - not to mention the elf that wants to be a
dentist. That was all new and strange to me on the first watch.

Rodney went down for a nap, as did I. I had a beer with lunch, not to
mention a sandwich full of tryptophan. So slithering into my side of the
bed upstairs, it was no surprise that I passed out for two hours, taking
one of those deep space, floating-at-the-bottom-of-the-ocean naps. Peak
relaxation.

Later in the afternoon, I emerged and waddled downstairs to start
dinner. I got to slicing vegetables for our soup, and once I got the
carrots, onions, leaks, pork, and just a whole heck done of sliced,
blanched cabbage on the pot, I once again tidied the kitchen up. Soups
are great because all the work happens at the beginning, then you
basically have an extra hour to kill. After cleaning up, I used the rest
of the time to experiment with my broiler. On cabbage and pork soup, I
usually toast some sliced bread in the oven, with maybe a layer of
gruyere and some cracked pepper. And thinking that might come out
looking even better if I got the cheese to bubble and crust a bit, I
went on an oven adventure. The broiler was easy to turn on - just a
button that says "broil" right beside the one I usually press to bake
things. A small blue flame bled from the top of the oven. I cautiously
extended my hand below it - it felt hot, and perhaps even hot enough to
bubble some cheese. I slipped the slices of bread in the oven and
wandered into the living room to check on Rodney.

Rodney's sniffles were slowly developing into a cold (last night he
actually got a bit of a fever), but he seemed content just zoning out in
front of the TV. I cuddled with him for a few minutes, then smelling
burnt cheese, I sprung up and checked on my broiler experiment.

Burnt. *Damn*. But only slightly burnt. Really, the piece of bread in
the middle was the only one that didn't make it out alive, but the
others looked pretty appetizing. So the take-away from this experiment
was that I have a working broiler, and that could make things
interesting in the future.

I finished seasoning the soup with salt, pepper, and cyan. I decied that
being a watery, bland soup, I could get away with a lot of cyan pepper.
The goal was to make the soup get your nose to run without tasting
spicy, and it worked out pretty well. Cyan pepper is an unsung hero of
the kitchen. I usually add a bit to everything ironically, like Chef
John does, but in his live stream video he got to rambling about how he
has a theory that a touch of cyan pepper can open up the taste buds on
parts of your tongue that are normally close, and I think he's on to
something. I think a bit of it in soup can activate just enough of the
spicy food response to get the blood flowing around the mouth and nose
and allow you to smell more.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed. Marissa had some painting to do, and
I started a load of dishes and crashed on the couch with Ziggy. I missed
my dogs, and I'm so glad they're home. We watched some YouTube videos,
then finally after about an hour I emerged to half-ass some evening
chores. I put the kitchen away, took the garbage out, then checked on
Marissa. She was wrapping up a time lapse, so I used the rest of the
time to record some music for the video I'll probably be editing today.
I used to use actual songs, but after taking the time to actually read
Instagram's terms of conditions that are pertinent to using music in
videos, I've concluded that - in the parlance of our time - *they have
no chill*. Virtually, you can't and shouldn't use any actual music in
your videos. Isn't that sad? Think about how much cooler Instagram would
be if you could use music that people actually like, instead of that
safe & poppy royalty free crap that you have to play instead. So in the
interest of not trolling soundcloud for the afformentioned crap, we're
going the acoustic guitar noodling route. It was fun recording music,
and even in the half hour I spent fiddling with Audacity, I discovered
several more features that I'm pretty excited about. What I was
anticipating being kind of a rough recording actually came out sounding
decent - just as decent as anything I've made in Garageband. And as we
all know, every time you find a free software replacement for something
made by Apple, an angel gets its wings.

That's what I got today. In three minutes, I'll be on a bus, and my
on-call shift will start, so set phasers to kill and phone volume to
max. Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

