---
title: dumplings, ruby, and concert on the square
---

Dear Journal,

It's a beautiful morning today - the kind of morning where it's so
bright outside, it almost feels like you're being beckoned out of bed to
go make coffee and get going. Yesterday's dumplings turned out really
good, and I just checked them a minute ago, despite cooling down in the
fridge, it looks like for the most part they didn't glob up into one
giant dumpling. Making the dumplings also turned out to be a fantastic
and fulfilling two person job, and it's fun to see how good you can get
at rolling the little dough circles flat, or crimping them together over
the filling. I think those are going to be really tasty this evening. I
was planning on serving them cold right out of the cooler with a bit of
soy sauce mixed with rice vinegar.

As an aside, I'm really enjoying the challenge of making cooler friendly
vegetarian recipes. It's really pushing me to try things I normally
wouldn't, and plus it's a great excuse to pig out on Wednesday during
lunch, knowing I'm getting a healthy home cooked vegetarian dinner. But
let's be honest, we both know that the second I get home, I extend the
excuse and permit myself to wolf down a few leftovers from the night
before. And right now there's a single taco from taco bell with my name
on it.

Work was a real bummer yesterday. I spent all day trying to get
something to work, and it's sill not working. I do my best to uphold my
personal belief that any programming language will work and you should
just keep the programming language tribalism to yourself, but that being
said, I just don't understand the point of 80% of the mechanisms in
ruby. All the needless object oriented behavior and stupid syntax sugar
on everything just make it so painful to work with. I'm making a point
to just shut up about it and get it done, because I should know how to
do this stuff. And let's be honest, I've had to do much worse.

Now I'm staring out the window trying to think of the worst programming
I've ever had to do, and I caught myself and decided I'd rather be in a
positive place. Deep breaths. Positive thoughts.

The only thing that matters is cooking, anyway. Marissa and I sat down
the other day and made a game plan, a menu, and a grocery list. Despite
being on a holiday weekend, the guest list for Rodney's party is filling
up! I think it will be a little more intimate this year, but I'm
expecting a handful of neighbors will swing by.

So today, I'm working from home. Then we're all going to walk over to
glass nickel for lunch and a beer. Then this evening, there's a special
concert on the square in which - word on the street - they're going to
be firing off a cannon during the 1812 overture. I think it's going to
be a good day.

