---
title: party and cooking
---

Dear Journal,

After cooking and cleaning the house into the wee hours of the night, it
felt good to sleep, and to wake up to a fresh hot pot of coffee. Marissa
stuck it out a little longer, and when I got up this morning, I was
tickled to see the caution tape, work zone signs, and a big chocolate
cake assembled in the fridge. We had a good time prepping everything
yesterday. We listened to just about every album I had on my phone, and
we even rewarded our efforts with a late night order from Domino's.

Rodney is pretty excited for the party. It was gratifying to watch him
confusedly wander around the house looking at all the decorations and
food, quietly whispering *wow* to himself. At the moment, he seems most
excited about the construction vests and hard hats he ordered. He even
brought me up a hat and vest to try on as I was climbing into the
shower. And when a three year old gives you a hard hat and a safety
vest, you don't question it - you just drop everything you're doing and
put them on.

This morning, just have a few more things to do. I'm picking up the keg
from the liquor store, finishing some laundry, then I'm going to start
cutting up some food. Last night's batch of gazpacho turned out really
good, as did the burger meat. I used a scale to remove all the guess
work, and borrowing from my favorite meatball recipe, I added beaten
eggs, breadcrumbs, and garlic to the meat before making the patties. I
had about a half ounce of ground beef left over, so as a taste test I
fried it up in some peanut oil, making what must have been the smallest
hamburger in the universe.

Alrighty - so that's what I got this morning. Let's have a birthday
party, and if you're reading this and you're planning on attending, I
can't wait to see you there!

