---
title: disney, sega, and lion king
---

Dear Journal,

We made it to Friday! It's been a pretty crazy week filled with ticket
duty, working with interns, cooking, video editing, chores, journaling,
and over-sleeping, but we've finally arrived at Friday and are at the
precipice of a long, relaxing weekend. Tonight, Marissa, Rodney, and I
are going to see the new lion king. Not going to lie to you, our
collective expectations are low. Marissa, being the biggest lion king
fan between the three of us, is worried her expectations are not going
to be met, especially hearing about the CGI, and all the changes they
made to the set list and the lyrics, etc. Me and Rodney's expectations
are a little lower - as long as we see at least a few lions and get to
eat a big bucket of popcorn, we'll have a good time.

I feel like I'm one of the few children that doesn't have a special
emotional connection to the Lion King. I swear to you, I don't think I
sat down and watched the movie beginning to end until I was in my
twenties. Don't get me wrong - I knew all about it. I used to play the
video game on the SEGA genesis, but I hated it. The game was
sadistically difficult. Even the first level where you play as a young
Simba, rolling and frolicking around pride rock, dodging beetles and
trying to climb rocks, was way too difficult. Maybe watching baby simba
fall off a ledge and die, or step on a beatle one too many times and
die, or (if you're lucky) just get mauled to death by the hyena at the
very end of the level has left be desensitized.

But nonetheless, I'm along for the ride tonight. I'm less upset about
this specific remake as I am about all of them in general. Think about
it. It seems like Disney is really on track to literally re release a
CGI version of every movie they have ever made. Sure, they're starting
with the easy ones first. The Lion King. Aladdin. The little mermaid.
Those tales are chock full of empowering messages. But I'm waiting for
them to finally get around to vamping something like *Sleeping Beauty*.
How do you get young girls excited about a beautiful young princess that
sleeps in a tube and waits for a magic kiss from a prince? How about
when she gets conned into washing dishes for all those dwarfs in the
woods? And then I think there's a poisonous fruit in the mix somewhere?

I think I was trying to build up to something, but I might just be
demonstrating how little I know about these Disney movies. I don't think
there are any dwarfs in sleeping beauty, are there? Man, if that's the
case, then what else happens in sleeping beauty?

If disney movies are your thing, then I hope for your sake that the Lion
King remake is everything you hoped it would be. And if it's not, then I
hope you let 'em have it.

I was talking to a friend who had a very interesting interpretation of
this whole Disney movie remake stasis we're trapped in. "Millenials are
the *me* generation, so they're only showing their kids things that THEY
were into as kids." That's a very poignant observation, isn't it? I had
just assumed producers were lazy, or they didn't want to pass up on an
established franchise only to stick their neck out for one that nobody's
ever heard of. But maybe we're the problem.

What's your favorite movie? How would you feel about a remake? Are some
things better left in the past? Good questions to chew on this rainy
Friday morning. Have a wonderful day, everyone. Watch out for beetles,
hyenas, and falling rocks.

