---
title: computers, naps, and work
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, and hope you're doing well on this drizzly morning. We had
some nice summer thunderstorms roll in last night. Ziggy and I took a
spontaneous nap on the couch while listening to the thunder. Sometimes
in the evening, especially during weeks where I don't get as much sleep
as I'd like to, I'll take a quick power nap on the couch with Ziggy. Her
nose gets cold, and she likes to tuck her head between my head and the
pillow, and a few minutes of listening to her breath will effectively
lull me to sleep.

After a quick power nap, I dragged up the downstairs computer and opened
it up. My goal was to just have a quick look, maybe remove some dust,
then put it back, but the project kind of spun out of control and before
I knew it, I had all the parts completely removed and set aside. There's
a lot more going on than I anticipated. As I had feared, the power
supply is a giant, hideous gray box. But it just occurred to me that if
I could boot it without the video card, I might be able to get away with
a smaller, more low profile power supply - and that's better for our
electric bill as well.

Before I knew it, it was 10:45, so I rushed to re assemble the computer
before evening TV time. The computer booted, but there was no video
output - thanks to my brilliant strategy of not taking pictures or notes
and just winging it. On the bright side, now that the computer is only
half assembled, it should be much easier to pick up where I left off
tonight.

I'm thinking about just selling off the parts individually and buying a
low powered Atom board. I'm kind of over the whole "beefy computer"
thing. This past year has been an unofficial experiment in cheap, low
powered machines, and for the most part they all have worked out pretty
well. The only time I have trouble is running chrome on my raspberry pi,
but I try to do that sparingly. I can still take notes, make journal
entries, and even write some code without having to open up a browser. I
would also tout the electric savings, but I'm sure my desktop and
servers are a drop in the bucket compared to what it costs to run our AC
in the hot summer months. We like to keep it cold - I like when every
room in the house feels like a chilly basement.

So what else is going onâ€¦ the interns and I have started on the second
to last week of work, and it's a doozy. Last week we rehearsed the
disaster recovery plan and designed some ambitious improvements, and
this is the week where we pretty much just attempt to build everything.
As always, they're way further along than I anticipated, but overall it
should be the perfect amount of work for the last two weeks we have
together.

Hope you all have a wonderful Tuesday. When was the last time you
cleaned the dust out of your computer? I bet it looks like coral reef of
dust bunnies in there.

