---
title: mixtapes, steak, and baking
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Yesterday was a very busy day. After work I took
Rod to Hy-Vee to pick up some sides. I had a chuck roast that had been
dry aging in the fridge since Sunday, and I wanted to pick up some
sides. Rod brought along his giant giraffe to Hy-Vee too, but even with
the extra member in our party we were in-and-out pretty quickly. Rod and
I have a pretty good Hy-Vee system at this point, and very few things
can throw it off.

Speaking of getting thrown off, just as I was loading the groceries into
the car, some dudes pulled up next to us and handing me a mixtape. I
gave the guy three bucks - partly because I like to support local
artists, but also because he said I looked groovy and I was very
flattered. Rod, Giraffe, and I listened to the mixtape on the way home.
We only made it about ten minutes, but I think that's all we needed. And
even if we had liked the mixtape, I don't know how I would have tracked
down the band because it doesn't have anything written on it. So I
suppose I would have to comb through the tracks and just listen to the
"shoutouts" or whatever. Let that be a lesson, I guess. If you're at the
stage in your rap career where you need to boost concert attendance by
handing out mixtapes in the Hy-Vee parking lot, then you're probably
also at the point in your rap career where you need to write your name
on them.

After we got home, Rod helped me cut up a shallot, but then lost
interest and decided to go watch TV. I really couldn't blame him, I
didn't have any idea what I was doing with the giant piece of meat in
the fridge, and he must have felt the vibes. Even though it was really
meant to be braised or cooked like a pot roast, I didn't have time to do
any of that, so I opted to just cook it like a giant steak with a
reverse sear. The three pound chuck roast took about 45 minutes to get
up to medium, and afterwards I seared the hell out of it on cast iron
and basted it in butter. I still had some rosemary and garlic around, so
I put them to work. I let the steak rest while I threw together some
peas and carrots. I thought I was in the clear and had pulled it off,
until I cut into the steak. The good news was that it was cooked
perfectly - cooking a steak right is just a matter of reading a
thermometer correctly. But the meat was chewy, and there was an
abundance of unappetizing fluid on the plate. So the moral of the story
is that while you can cook a chuck roast as if it were a giant steak, it
won't taste like one. It was still perfectly edible, and my hungry
family graciously just filled up on end pieces, bread, and sides, but
just something to remember for later. While cleaning up, I joked with
Marissa that after proving I can turn an inappropriate piece of meat
into a barely passable steak, cooking a real steak next time should feel
pretty easy. Kind of like how baseball players practice with weights at
the end of their bad - so when the weight comes off and they step up to
the plate, the bat feels lighter. In the same vain, I should see if I
can reverse sear a shoe.

After putting Rod to bed, Marissa painted and I kept the cooking party
rolling into the evening, making more batches of palmiers in between
Wednesday chores. The first batch of palmiers turned out terrible - the
hearts unfolded into what looked like angry crab pincers, and they
burned, but I found a good system and the batches started to normalize.
Soon I had the hearts in-tact, golden brown, ready to be paraded around
the office.

Baking is difficult. It almost feels like a sport. I'm pretty exhausted,
and tonight I think I'm going to suggest we eat at Portillo's to give
our kitchen a break.

Marissa and I finished the night by sitting on the couch together and
watching New Girl. We're both still reeling from our decision to stop
watching *Handmaid's Tale*. I read somewhere yesterday that attention is
our only currency, and we should spend it wisely. Something to keep in
mind as the "binge-able TV mini series" becomes more fashionable.

That's my time. Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

