---
title: mondays, management tactics, and the countdown snowman
banner: 2020-12-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  Happy Monday, and welcome to the first day
of December.  Isn't it exciting rolling over into a new month?  It's
like the new car smell equivalent of the calendar.  A new month, and a
much shorter month if we're talking about work.  Thank goodness for
all the holidays and days off we have coming up.

I'm feeling much better this morning.  The long holiday weekend made
it difficult to start the week.  My brain felt like a cold engine that
had been sitting in the garage all winter.  But between getting some
laundry done, getting a French soup in my stomach, and getting a
regular Monday's worth of work down on the books, I'm feeling totally
restored today.

_Sip_.  How was your Monday?  Mine started as you'd expect - after my
Monday morning meeting with the team I shuffled down the stairs to
refill coffee.  Rodney's chipper greeting fell on deaf ears as I gave
him a careless tired wave, passing through his pile of toys in the
living room.  I slumped into a chair at the dining room table across
from Marissa.  I could tell from the look in her eye that she was
feeling just as dead and tired as I was.

"Monday's, right?" she sighed.  She pursed her lips in a silly way,
letting her eyes roll in her head.  I broke out into laughter.  I
don't if it's more of a character, a bit, or just a recurring
pointless joke, but lately Marissa and I like to act as if we're
workplace acquaintances, sharing painfully awkward small talk around
the figurative water cooler.

"What a struggle today," I sighed.

"My current plan is to do a craft with Rodney in the morning, then I'm
going to let him do his own thing," she replied.

"Sounds good," I replied.  "I'm going to drink obscene amounts of
coffee while watching a training video, then I'm going to half-ass
some mac 'n cheese for lunch."

I'd return an hour later to find Rodney and Marissa finishing up their
craft.  They had made a paper chain snowman to hang on the wall, each
of the links in the chain numbered one through twenty-four.

"It's a countdown," Marissa explained.  "Now Rodney can rip off a link
every day until Christmas."

"And then on Christmas day, what?" I said.  "We just throw his head in
the trash?"

"Something like that," she laughed.  You'd think Rodney would be proud
of their creation, but taking me by the hand he led me passed their
dangling Christmas countdown snowman to the other wall.  There was a
piece of white paper taped to the wall.  It had a snowman's face, and
sparse coils of popping out of the wall.

"What is this, dude?" I asked, trying to act impressed.  Rodney
proudly extended his arms, gesturing at the wall.  "It's my CHRISTMAS
COUNTING SNOWMAN," said Rodney, emphasizing each word with a small
thud hopping in place on the floor.

"Rodney made his own countdown," explained Marissa.

"So tell me how this works," I asked earnestly.

Rodney pursed his lips, slowly extending his hand to the snowman.  He
delicately shook his paper hand.

"So... you just shake his hand?" I asked.

"Yep!" said Rodney, jumping.

"Oh OK, I think I get it," I said.  "So every morning leading up to
Christmas, we shake the snowman's paper hand.  I'm not gonna lie, that
makes a lot more sense to me than throwing his body in the trash."

Rodney nodded, and satisfied with our interaction, he scampered away
into the living room.  I remained at the wall for a few minutes,
drinking coffee and admiring the elegant mess of scotch tape and
paper.

"He was really specific about it," said Marissa.  "He spent most of
the time arranging the coils around the body.  Then after it was taped
to the wall, he ran up to me and asked to help him make arms and
legs."

"Positively frightening," I laughed.

I'm left wondering what the snowman installation is trying to
communicate.  On one hand, a flattened snowman implies some kind of
tragedy, like I just witnessed a horrible accident that left him
splattered on the wall.  But much like the _Mona Lisa_, his wry smile
confounds the message, as if he's saying _I'm supposed to look this
way - trust me_.  Deep stuff, right?  Rodney is really coming into his
prime as an artist I think.

After wolfing down an uninspiring bowl of blue box mac and cheese for
lunch, I returned to the bedroom office to finish out the day.  I
attended some meetings, then joined Marissa in her studio in the late
afternoon.

"Are you done for the day?" she asked.

"Almost," I replied.  "I'm not letting myself sign off for the day
before I find something for the interns to do this week."

Marissa lifted her brush off the painting and took a step back in
thought.  "Can't you just say something like... 'this week, why don't
_YOU_ tell _ME_ what you'll be working on'?"

A role reversal - a classic management tactic.  And while it was
tempting, I think I'm better off saving that card for later on in the
year when I really run out of ideas.

"I think I'm just going to go clean leeks until it comes to me," I
said before trudging up the stairs.

I would eventually land on something good for the week, and after
disappearing in my room to write the work ticket, I finished out the
day.  We had leek and potato soup for dinner, and thanks to Rodney's
final effort to cram the remaining soggy croutons into his mouth, we
were rewarded with an adventurous game of hide and seek in lieu of
Rodney time.  Marissa and I are positive we have tried every single
hiding spot in the house - not that it really matters when Rodney is
playing.  He hides in the same spot every time - underneath the coffee
table by the couch.  He switches the lamp on and off too while yelling
with his puppet voice too.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Tuesday everyone.
