---
title: windtalkers, french toast, ducks, and caterpillars
banner: 2020-08-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, everyone.  Whether you are spending your day
conquering your yard, cleaning up celebrations leftover from Friday
night, or just treating the day like a generous extension of Friday
night, I hope you're feeling good.  Our family is taking things slow.
Over coffee, Marissa and I floated around some goals for the weekend
before moving the situation over to the living room couch for a mid
day _Finding Nemo_ showing.

"Do you think _Finding Nemo_ will be too scary for Rodney?" asked
Marissa.

"Nah, he'll be fine," I said dismissively.  "And if he doesn't like
it, you can just put on _Windtalkers_ instead."  Marissa chortled, and
took another sip of coffee.

Sometime between 1-2 AM last night, we finished _Windtalkers_.  We
still haven't reached a consensus on whether or not it was worth our
time.

"I'm going to go with a B minus," I declared.  "The dialog is a little
slapped toghether, but at least the music is good."

"No no no," protested Marissa.  "You realize a _C_ is average, right?
Do you really think it was better than average?"

"Ah good point," I rescinded.  "OK, we'll go with a C.  It was an
average movie."

_Windtalkers_ was a mixed bag of good and bad film making decisions.
James Horner did a wonderful job with the score.  There were plenty of
scenes where the background music carried the story more effectively
than the dialog.  But in between the beautiful swelling strings and
horns, the movie makes it hard to relax.

"They really abuse the old war movie cliche where a nice scene is
abruptly interrupted by action," I laughed.  "In good movies, it only
happens like two or three times.  But there were at least fifteen
scenes where someone explodes while joking around or showing off
pictures of their family."

"I think you nailed it," said Marissa.  "I kind of came to expect it
whenever something nice was happening.  It's a brutal movie."

To make up for the late night, we slept in today.  I made a flight of
French Toast for breakfast, finally remembering to take a better
picture for my cookbook.  For too long has my favorite breakfast
recipe been unjustly represented by a grainy, zoomed-in picture of
some charred store bought baguette slices.  The shot I got today is
much truer to form - playing card sized wedges of caramelized
sourdough bread dusted with cinnamon sugar.  Like a delicious piece of
milk and egg logged driftwood pulled out of a marsh of hot brown
butter.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/french-toast.jpg">
    <img alt="french toast" src="/images/french-toast.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>French
Toast: The physical manifestation of Saturday morning </p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Sourdough makes the best french toast, by the way.  I think the key is
that sourdough bread doesn't really get stale.  It just gets chewier.
And that checks out - I read that because sourdough is made from
naturally occurring community of bacteria and yeast, it lasts much
longer.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  As the morning hours slipped
away, we gave up on our grand plans to take the family on a walk to
the biergarten.  Taking two children, three lawn chairs, a cooler, a
diaper bag, toys, and masks on a thirty minute walk outside suddenly
seemed like a ludicrous idea.  Marissa also talked us into ordering a
pizza for dinner instead.

We hung out at the biergarten with Alex and Cassie.  While
commiserating over the long week, we entertained Rodney by sending him
on garbage runs to the trash can, and Alex played a careful round of
frisbee with him in the grass.

I took Rodney over to the water to feed the ducks.  But sadly, not
even the leftover cheesy breadcrumbs from the stuffed tomatoes we
brought were enough to entice the single wading duck over to the
shore.

"Don't worry, dude," I said, "I talked to that duck, and he said he
would pick up all the crumbs later."

"Yeah.  Good.  Later," nodded Rodney, demonstrating an unshakeable
belief that his Father can talk to ducks.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/talking-to-ducks.jpg">
    <img alt="talking to ducks" src="/images/talking-to-ducks.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The duck also said 'thank you' and 'listen to your father'</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

As we were packing up, Rodney discovered a giant green caterpillar
wriggling around on our picnic blanket.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/lunar-moth-caterpillar.jpg">
    <img alt="lunar moth caterpillar" src="/images/lunar-moth-caterpillar.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"It's a lunar moth," said Marissa this morning.  "I literally found it
online by just searching for _giant green caterpillar_."

"The Internet is wonderful, isn't it?" I laughed.

Before leaving, I reluctantly finished Marissa's beer for her.  And
after the heavy craft brew hit my stomach, it was only a matter of
time before it sent me spiraling into a early evening nap.  Just
before the sleepy timebomb went off, I managed to start a movie for us
while we waited for the pizza to be delivered.

I like how in these pictures of Miles, you can see me completely
conked out with my head wedged uncomfortably between the arm rest and
back of the couch.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/miles-with-me-sleeping.jpg">
    <img alt="miles with me sleeping" src="/images/miles-with-me-sleeping.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Smiling baby, and a pulled muscle in progress.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We feasted on pizza and let Rodney finish _Bill and Ted's Excellent
Adventure_.  During the scene where they time travel to the future and
meet the society built on their excellent music, I tried to jog
Rodney's memory.

"Dude, when you were two years old, you used to stand in front of the
TV during this scene and pretend to strum a guitar," I said, lifting
my arm slowly in front of me.  Rodney didn't remember, but he joined
me in the Bill and Ted's salute anyway.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I had a hobby night.  After
three hours of beer and buttered sourdough fueled coding, I lifting my
hands in victory.

"Did you figure something out?" asked Marissa from the table.

"Yep," I said.  "Wasn't sure if something would be possible, but it's
like I finally saw light in the tunnel."

"Good job, Dada," she said.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a great Saturday.
