---
title: snacking, sleep sounds, and the beercha store
banner: 2020-06-17.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  Today, I hope you take the
time to reflect on the half week you've had so far.  There's still
plenty of time to adjust course before the weekend, so be forgiving to
yourself.

I'm feeling really good today.  I got a great night of sleep, and I
think I have to credit that to easing up on the evening snacking.  I
normally take little snacks to the couch around eleven before Marissa
and I watch TV or start a movie.  On most days it's something small -
like a ramekin of sliced cheese, or some buttered toast.  But lately,
the habit has kind of spun out of control.  If you're not careful, an
evening snacking ritual can turn into an excuse to just clean your
pantry and fridge out.  Small ramekins of cheese turn into bowls of
icecream, bags of chips, chocolate, and dinner leftovers right out of
the tupperware.  In easing up on the snacking habit, I was only trying
to get things under control to avoid the _quarantine 15_.  I didn't
expect to get better sleep and notice a change in my mood so soon.

It's funny how snacking can turn into an anesthetizing drug, isn't it?
Perhaps I was using evening snacks to deal with the stress of
everything going on in the news.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a _self-care day_, as we millenials call it.
The only cooking I did all day was toasting a pair of bread slices
with butter.  From that point forward, we stuck to leftovers for
lunch, and decided early in the day that we would end up at the
biargarten in the evening and order a pizza for dinner.

And Rodney would go to the biergarten every day if he could.  While we
were sitting on the couch, Rodney started to puppet a pretend
conversation between himself and Miles, gently shaking Miles' hand and
throwing his voice as a high pitched baby character on behalf of his
brother.

"What's that Miles?  What were you saying?" said Rodney, leaning in
close to Miles.

"'Hmmyah hmmyeah hmmeah... beercha'," he squeaked for his brother.

"You want to go to the... beercha store?" asked Rodney rhetorically?

"'HMMYAH HMMYISH HYMMMAH!'" replied Miles.

"Ohhh," said Rodney rocking back in his seat.  "You want to go to the
_biergart_."

And you know I love the irony in this skit between Rodney
mispronouncing "biergarten" while pretending to correct Miles.  No,
Miles.  It's not the "beercha store" - it's the _biergart_.

As we hung around the house in the morning, Rodney reached his mental
TV quota and decided to relocate to the family computer.  Usually, I
open up Nick Jr's website, and Rodney will just continue to watch
miniature versions of the same shows with a slackjawed gaze, but I
decided to throw him a curveball.

"Want to try a new game?" I asked.  Rodney nodded, and the two of us
scrolled through my Steam account.

"That one," said Rodney, jabbing at the screen with his little index
finger.

"Perfect dude," I said.  "That's kind of a retro game.  Good choice,
since this computer is a little lacking in the graphics department."

Rodney picked a silly, retro arcade platformer.  I read the dialog
aloud with my dramatic bedtime story voice while Rodney keyed through
the intro, and then he was off.  Just him, the arrow keys, and a
little blue character trying to jump over a pixelated spike pit.
Rodney sent the character right into the spikes and cackled.  I knew
he would be entertained for at least a half hour.

But moments after Rodney reached peak contentment, after I had turned
around to pour another glorious cup of hot black coffee, the computer
fan went silent.  The screen fizzed to black.  "Uh oh," said Rodney.

"Dada, fix it?" asked Rodney as I mashed the unresponsive power button
with my finger.

"Sorry dude," I said, setting down my coffee.  "Computer is broken.
Why don't you go play in the living room."  And with that, a
potentially precious early computer memory fizzled and faded to black,
like our dud family room computer.

Despite my bad mood, I stuck it out and watched the kids for another
hour so Marissa could attend a remote agility class with Ziggy in the
backyard, and in gratitude, Marissa gave me the afternoon off.  After
sending Rodney upstairs for quite time, I settled in on the couch
under a blanket and put on some relaxing sleep sounds.

You remember those ambient sleep sounds, don't you?  It's sort of like
themed white noise designed for relaxation.  If you don't know, there
are tons of free videos on YouTube - just 10 hour long videos of
crackling fire and gentle rain.  My personal favorite is "deep space
travel" - just the deep insulated rumbling of a spaceship.  Sometimes
the sound of a space ship engine makes me so relaxed, I end up
thinking too much to sleep.

After some recharging time, we all walked to the biergarten together.
And despite bringing a football and a basketball, by the time we
completed the long walk in the hot sun, we were too tired to do
anything but flop down onto the blanket in the shade and sip on beer.
The biergarten - as Rodney would call it, the "biergart", or as Rodney
would say that Miles calls it, the "beercha store", was beautiful.  We
talked, and watched the sun set over the lake.  After recovering from
the long walk, I chased Rodney around the field just to make sure he
was as tired as we were.

And so after a self-care day, I once again have some catching up to.
And luckily our computer is back up and running again.  I forgot about
it all day, then just before turning in for the night, I
absentmindedly tried the power button one last time, and wouldn't you
know it?  The damn thing booted right up.

Thanks for stopping by today.  This afternoon, I'd recommend you too
take a nap to the sounds of deep space travel, a crackling fire, or a
gentle rain, if that's what you're into.  Happy Wednesday, everyone.
