---
title: turkey, poop, and chargebacks
banner: 2020-11-24.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  Have you checked on your
turkey yet today?  Following our time table, today is officially the
first day of cooking something for the big day.  As of last night, our
family calendar is now speckled with orange blocks, each representing
something that needs to go in the fridge or on the oven.  If all goes
according to plan, today after work I'll be heating up an apple cider
brine.  In the evening after it cools, I'll plunge Bob into the
solution to let him enjoy his salty skin treatment overnight.

We decided to name our turkey Bob, by the way.  It may not be the most
creative name in the Recker family animal kingdom, but at least it
will serve as a nice identifying handle while I talk about prepping
for Thanksgiving this week.  Consider this my final warning - I'm
going to be talking about Thanksgiving _a lot_ this week.

Along with Thanksgiving plans getting going, I also have poop on the
mind - an unfortunate pairing, isn't it?  Well past his fourth
birthday, we remain at the frustrating nexus of regular accidents and
occasional glimmers of hope.  While trying to read this morning, I let
the stinky distraction get the best of me, and minutes later I was
hunched over my phone reading Google results.

By now, Marissa and I must have already seen every google result.  We
know what's out there and we've probably already tried it.  At this
point, I think googling the problem is just a form therapy.  Reddit
comments are particularly amusing.  For every "my child won't poop in
the potty" thread out there, the only replies are people swooping in
with even worse stories.  Nobody is finding any answers.

It makes you wonder how much poop a person can take.  How much poop do
you have to clean up before it changes you?  Is there such thing as
_poop stockholm syndrome_?  Can a person go _poop-mad_?

While trudging up the stairs this morning, I saw Rodney's bedroom
light switched on through his cracked door, and I heard him shuffling
his pillow and blankets around on the floor.  I peeked my head into
his room to greet him.  Rodney looked stunned at first, then smiled.

"How's it going dude?" I said sleepily.

"Feels good," said Rodney, spinning around with his hands on his hips.
"Are you going to shower now?"

"You bet, dude," I smiled.

"First, I have to show you something," said Rodney expectantly.

"OK," I laughed.  "What do you got?"

"I have to show you something _on the floor_," he clarified.  My smile
faded.  In a panic, my eyes darted around his room.  His blanket was
balled up suspiciously at the foot of his bed.

"Rodney...," I said.  "Tell me what's on the floor."

Rodney danced over to his window, flinging his curtains to the side.
He gestured grandly at the window, directing my attention to a flurry
of wet, sticky snow flakes falling on the grass outside.

"Snow!" he cheered.  "There's _snow_ on the floor."

_Sip_.  How are you dealing with all the poop in your life?  And more
importantly, how was your Monday?

Yesterday was rough.  In the morning while grabbing a cereal bar, I
passed a stressed out Marissa at the computer anguishing over an email
opened up on the screen.  She shipped a painting to another country,
and it was lost in the mail.  The frustrated buyer informed her they
would be initiating a _chargeback_.

A _chargeback_ is the term for when a purchaser of goods goes to their
bank or credit card company directly to dispute the charge.  It's a
perk meant to give people some last measure of confidence when buying
things on the Internet.  If a seller were to take my money, then
refuse to give me the thing I bought or give me my money back, as a
person I wouldn't have much recourse.  But a bank or a credit card
company does, and after they've conducted their own investigation of
the disputed charge, they have the power to take their money back
despite what the seller thinks.

On Marissa's side, she's working diligently with the post office.  The
post office can't yet officially say the painting is lost, so they
can't pay her the insurance.  She's also relaying all the information
to the buyer, so they can relay it to their credit card company.  The
best case scenario is that the painting arrives before anyone's money
returns.  But what if the painting is delivered after the chargeback
goes through?  I'd assume that the credit card company's investigation
is supposed to prevent that from happening, but how do they make the
decision?  Since it's their money and their customer's line of credit,
don't they already have a bias against the seller?

The chargeback problem raises a lot of philosophical questions about
how things should be sold on the Internet.  Who takes the loss when
something gets lost in the mail?  According to ebay, it's the seller.
According to Etsy, it's the buyer (but they strongly recommend the
seller issues a refund).

Marissa fired off an email and slumped back on her chair.  Almost
instantaneously, her phone buzzed with a text message.  "You gotta be
kidding me," she sighed.  "Our debit card was stolen."  Going along
with the theme of online money nonsense, Marissa would spend the final
hour of her quiet morning going over an itemized list of fraudulent
charges with an angry phone robot.

To finish out our terrible Monday, Rodney couldn't finish his dinner
in time for Rodney time.  It appears that Rodney's distaste for mashed
potatoes slightly outweighs the enjoyment he gets from Rodney time.
After dinner I sent him to his room to think it over.  Not a great way
to end the day, I could have really used a game of Jenga to cheer
things up.

Kind of a tough day yesterday.  I was eager to get up this morning and
start fresh, and something as small as a little bit of snow on the
ground gives me hope that we might actually figure out some problems
today.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a great Tuesday,
everyone.
