---
title: work output, time in the yard, cooking, and tv
banner: 2020-04-21.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to Tuesday.  Let's do a quarantine
check-in, shall we?  Are you hanging in there?  Are you well-stocked
with food, supplies, and things with which to amuse yourself?

The Recker family is holding out just fine.  I'm actually kind of
amazed at out how normal everything feels at this point.  Back when
the virus was first found and there were early rumblings of a
stay-at-home order, I thought to myself _there is no way this will
ever feel normal_.  But here we are a short month later, and the
global pandemic has already been folded into my life like flour into
bred dough, thoroughly incorporated into my routine.  Socializing has
gone full remote.  Stockpiles, international politics, and casual
epidimiology have become small-talk.  The fact that a global pandemic
can start to feel normal makes me question if anything is actually
normal.

_Sip_.  But we're doing just fine here.  In fact on the potty training
front, Rodney drew first blood yesterday (or should I say first
_brown_).  See?  Even in a pandemic, there are always small, _stinky_
victories to celebrate.

As for me, I had kind of a rough work day yesterday.  Nothing bad
happened or anything.  In fact after my morning meeting, I spent the
rest of the day working quietly in my room.  I just had a hard time
digging into work and finishing anything.

I know - work isn't linear.  It's not like the amount of work I do is
a function of how long I'm sitting at my computer, but sometimes I
treat my work like that should be the case, and I get frustrated when
the day wanes away and I have nothing to show for it.  I feel
disappointed in my own work output.  I'm like my very own
pointy-haired boss from the Dilbert comic series.

Marissa peaked her head into my room in the afternoon.  "Up for a
walk?" she asked.  I wistfully stared out the window, realizing I
hadn't yet taken any time to enjoy the obscenely beautiful spring
day.

"Yeah, let's do it," I replied.

We suited up the dogs and headed down the block.  Marissa noticed that
I was a little bummed.

"Is everything OK?" she asked.  "Do you want to talk about it?"

"Nah," I replied.  "Just having a tough work day."

"Did I contribute to anything?" she asked.  I smiled, acknowledging
the incredibly compassionate question.

"No no, I'm sorry.  Just a grouch today, it's just work stuff," I
replied shrugging my shoulders.

We quietly strolled up the block, rounding the corner, heading back
home on the opposite street.  Rodney happily ran behind us, collecting
sticks in his arms.  By the time we returned home, the peaceful walk
and warm, sunny weather had already begun to coax me out of my funk.
"OK, I'm going to head upstairs.  By the time you see me next, let's
hope I've finished _something_", I laughed.

I worked through the rest of the morning upstairs.  After catching up
on messages, cleaning up my notes, and choosing a new ticket from our
queue, flicked open a new terminal to get started - only to realize my
VPN credentials were expired.  "Aaaand that's a wrap," I sighed to
myself in my empty bedroom.

I joined Marissa outside on the deck, slumping into a chair and
letting the warm sun wash over me.  Marissa was practicing agility
with Ziggy using the new weave poles that just arrived in the mail.
Ziggy waited patiently beside her while she caught her breath at the
table.

"The new weave poles look great.  How are they working out?" I asked.

"Good!  But they're a little rusty," said Marissa.

I relocated to a lawn chair so I could observe the practice session.
Marissa took another break, letting me try a run with Ziggy.  After
both dogs got enough time in the makeshift agility ring, Marissa and I
tossed around the football and chatted.

After some time in the yard, I headed inside to start on dinner.
Curating healthy, resourceful meals without clashing ingredients
continues to be a challenge, but after finishing a big shopping trip
only two days ago, we still had plenty of options.  I went with a
spinach, apple, and bell pepper salad with _saucijzenbroodjes_ and a
loaf of beer bread.

I prepped the sausage rolls first.  It had been a while since I've
made them, and it was fun to revisit the recipe now that my cooking
skills have been hardened from quarantine life.  It's hard to imagine
that rolling up some ground beef in pastry used to take me a whole
hour.  Even after having to cut up my own bread crumbs from a toasted
bread butt, the rolls were set aside and ready for the oven in twenty
minutes.

I prepped the salad next.  I have a strategy with salads where I start
with two ingredients to get the ratio right - this time just spinach
leaves and apple slices.  I cut the apples thin like paper.  The rest
of the salad, following my methodology, is pretty flexible according
to taste.  Taking bites out of the bowl with a fork, I continued to
throw in random ingredients - bell peppers, sunflower seeds, and
cilantro - until I arrive at something that looks complete.  I threw
in a dab of _BRIENNE'S HOMESTYLE CILANTRO LIME SALAD DRESSING_ and set
it aside in the fridge.  That's another little Recker Family salad
secret.  Marissa will eat anything as long as it is accompanied by
_BRIENNE'S HOMESTYLE CILANTRO LIME SALAD DRESSING_.

The sausage rolls and the beer bread emerged from the oven and we
enjoyed dinner at the table.  I love a good dinner prepping session,
and if sitting outside and playing catch with Marissa hadn't already
put me in a better mood, I was definitely in a good mood after dinner.

As uninteresting as it sounds, the rest of the night was filled with
chores and TV.  It's hard to imagine, but Marissa and I are falling
behind on TV shows.  Top priority was watching the season finale of
_Better Call Saul_.  Dark and tragic, but artful and always
appreciated.  As usual, it will be a long, nearly intolerable wait for
the next season.

We're also trying to finish _The Good Place_.  It had some strong
seasons that got us hooked early on, but lately it feels like the show
is just circling the drain in search of an ending.  And since half the
fun of the show is just learning about it's silly version of the
afterlife while it dances around the ultimate question, I feel like
it's bound for an inevitable disappointment when they finally just
tell us what the show is all about.

TV is such a wonderful distraction, isn't it?  TV is like pizza - even
when it's bad, it's still pretty good.  Today, I'm grateful for TV.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
