---
title: clown fish, imitation crab, and shots at avatar
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday, from my computer screen to
yours.  How are you feeling today?

I'm running a bit behind this morning.  Weirdly, I overslept by only
about twenty minutes today, so I'm waking up in the worst of both
worlds.  Not only to I have the sensation that I'm trying to catch up
with my day, but I also don't really notice the extra sleep, as it
just amounted to a power nap.  Next time, I'll be sure to oversleep by
a few hours just to make the mistake count.

But I'm here now, right where I'm supposed to be - writing at the
keyboard, drinking a fresh cup of coffee.  The dogs have been fed and
relieved, and Krang is downstairs in his jar chewing on a fresh 113 g
scoop of wheat flour.  The morning routine prevails.

_Sip_.  It feels good to be drinking Rockford's Fire Department Coffee
again.  We took a little break from our usual brew to work through a
big bag of Starbucks House blend that my parents treated us to.  And
kind of like coming home from a long vacation, you simultaneously
enjoy the variety as well as the return to the usual.

Would you like to hear some exciting fish tank news?  Yesterday, we
woke up two what looked like _two_ blood fire shrimp hanging out in
the tank - one of them a fresh, vibrant Bruno, and the other a ghostly
pale molt.

"I think Bruno molted," said Marissa.  "Ugh, I think I could puke."

"Oh cool," I said shuffling over to the tank in my bathrobe.  "You
know I read on reddit that if you leave the molt in the tank, he'll
eventually just eat it."

"We're not doing that," protested Marissa.

"Oh c'mon," I persisted.  "It's his first molt.  It's kind
of... significant, right?  Bruno became a _man_ last night."

"He has twenty-four hours," said Marissa narrowing her eyes at me.
"Then I throw it away!"

To be honest, Bruno shedding his exoskeleton was hardly the big fish
news yesterday.  We also made the trip to the clown fish depot and
picked up _Ibb_ and _Obb_.  We named them after a silly little video
game Marissa and I played when Rodney was first born.  Ibb and Obb are
doing just fine.  After completing the acclimation out of their
plastic bag, I think they appreciate all the new extra space with only
one loner of a shrimp roommate to deal with.

And speaking of which - geez, Bruno.  You picked a terrible day to
pull this gross exoskeleton stunt of yours.  Are you trying to freak
out the clown fish?

In the afternoon, I finally got around to making a recording of myself
reading the Dutch short story _De Noordenwind_.  For someone who was
starting to think they were getting good at Dutch, hearing your own
isolated audio is a helpful, albeit crushing reality to face.  Every
imperfection seemed to leap into my headphones - the stuttering, the
weak vocal chords, the _r_'s that don't quite bounce, and the
dipthongs that don't quite hold their shape.  On one hand, I feel
proud of how far I've come in a year, but I'm also grateful for the
reality check.  Learning a new language takes some serious time, and
if only a year of Duolingo was all it took be ready to chat up a
none-the-wiser native speaker, wouldn't more people be doing this?

If you're curious to hear where I'm at, or you're just in the mood for
a shoddy bedtime story, help yourself to [my recording].

Yesterday, for dinner, I made crab mac and cheese.  Marissa teased me
that I seem to make seafood whenever we add a fish to our tank, and so
far that holds true.

"I just bought imitation crab," I said before we started eating.  "I
was excited about trying it with lobster, and I knew lobster was
expensive, but I didn't know it was _that_ expensive."

"How much was it?" Marissa laughed.

"They only had one giant lobster tail in the freezer at Hy-Vee, and it
was $37 dollars," I replied.  Marissa practically did a spit take.

"Compare that to the imitation crab, which was a cool five bucks for
this whole pack," I laughed.

And even for just being a type of mac and cheese, the recipe was kind
of involved.  It started with a wasabi and butter roux, milk, fresh
nutmeg, paprika, and finally a whole bunch of freshly grated white
cheddar.  The fondue was tossed in a casserole dish with imitation
crab meat seasoned with old bay, and finally topped with buttered
parmesan bread crumbs before being smothered in heat under the
broiler.

"What - you didn't like the crab?" I said sharply.  Marissa had a
little mound of cheesy crab meat scooted to the side of her plate.

"No! I like it," said Marissa defending herself.  "I just ran out of
noodles to go with it."  Rodney too had a little mound of imitation
crab meat scooted to the side of his cleaned plate.

"Oh, you and your 'ratios'," I said with a wave.  "You two are a
couple of weirdos if you won't eat imitation crab covered in cheese."

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I cleaned up the house, then
moved further along with this week's movie pick: _Avatar_.  And with
two hundred words remaining in this post, I think I'll just spend them
on taking shots at the movie _Avatar_.

First off, you would have to conclude that the money spent on
perfecting the CGI in avatar was a waste.  Watching the movie on a new
living room TV in 2020, the visuals were about as impressive as they
are in _A Bug's Life_.

"Seriously," I heckled.  "This scene right here - with all of them
running across the tree branches, could be right out of _A Bug's
Life_.  And how big was the budget for that movie?"

Marissa laughed.  "You have a point.  Now I feel like I'm watching _A
Bug's Life_."

And you should have heard us heckling in the scene where rugged
American marine Jake Sully locks eyes with a dragon, wrestles it to
the ground, and forcibly connects their love braids together.

"Nah, you're reading into that," protested Marissa.  "That's not
creepy."

"Look," I explained.  "The line about how _you know a dragon chooses
you when it tries to kill you_, especially in the context of soul
bonding... it's a little too close to _no means no_ territory."

And wouldn't you know it?  The very next scene was a love scene
between Jake Sully and the native.  With an explicit call back to the
dragon scene.  _She must also choose me_, said Jake Sully.  

"I told you it was a metaphor," I said smugly.  "James Cameron should
be glad he got this movie out before #MeToo, or he would have been in
some hot water for the insinuations here."

That's what I got today.  Thanks for stopping by.

[my recording]: {% audio noordenwind.mp3 %}
