---
title: old scallops, peppermint chocolate, and a glass of water
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! How is everybody doing today on this wonderful
winter morning? I checked the forecast this morning before heading
downstairs, as I usually do, and "light snow" caught my attention.
Remember to bundle up today, it looks like today might actually feel
like a mid January winter day. Realistically, we seem to get most of our
snow in the early spring don't we? This past December, we barely had any
snow, so now these days I just expect to get buried in January,
February, and maybe even March.

I'm not going to lie to you, reader. I'm having a hard time waking up
this morning - as if talking about the weather and snow is going to
help. Something about this early January has been really tiring me out.
I'm actually tempted to blame the same cold that we all caught during
our holiday travels. My nose was pretty stuffed up this morning, and I
have to wonder if the effects are still lingering. But colds be damned -
the only remedy for unexplained tiredness is just to keep marching on
and hope something changes.

Yesterday, to my advantage, was not as busy as I thought it would be. My
only code screen of the day was a no-show. Someone not showing up to an
interview doesn't always necessitate a tragic misunderstanding. I bet
some of these college kids must apply to a whole slew of internships,
and when they accept one, they might not have time to cancel all the
other outstanding offers and interviewers. And believe me, I absolutely
don't mind a no-show either. As I told our recruiter, all it means for
me is I get thirty free minutes to work on something alone in a private
room, or better yet just sit back in my chair and not think about
anything. I'm reminded of the classic John Mulaney bit - "cancelling
plans is like heroine - it's instant relief."

So yesterday worked out just fine, and it wasn't as busy of a work day
as I anticipated. Today should be kind to me too. I have some meetings
in the morning, and assuming I can find something juicy to work on, I
should have plenty of quiet coding time for the rest of the day.

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee, as we usually do. We picked up
pasta, garlic, and a half pound of scallops from the meat counter. I
left the card pressed up against the lobster tank to Rodney to peak his
head in. "Lobsters are sleeping," Rodney reported back with
disappointment in his voice. Ever since he happened to witness a
passionate lobster fight at the Jenny Street market, just seeing
lobsters chilling in a tank of water doesn't do it for him anymore.

Heading up to the checkout, we stopped by the big basket of chocolate
Kinder eggs, as we normally do. While digging around for an egg, Rodney
found a misplaced peppermint white chocolate bar. He held it in front of
me, signaling that he made his choice. "Are you sure dude," I
questioned. "This is peppermint, it might not taste like what you'd
expect." Rodney held it closer to my face, persisting. We unwrapped it
in the car, and taking the first bite, he declared "SO TASTY." So I
guess it worked out.

At home, Rodney played with his toys in the living room while I prepared
dinner. The plan was to make garlic pasta, then somewhere in the mix,
find time and stovetop space to fry some scallops in brown butter. As I
opened the bag of scallops over the sink, a very funky puff of old fish
filled my nostrils and made me wince. I rolled me eyes. Sometimes, I
don't even know why I bother with Hy-Vee's scallops. For most items -
beef, chicken, pork, even white fish - they do a pretty good job of
making sure everything is fresh and edible. But I knew I shouldn't have
rolled the dice on the bucket of tiny limp scallops sitting in murky
water. I know a savvy fish shopper would have asked to smell them before
buying, but I go to Hy-Vee every day, and I don't want to be marked as
*that guy who asks to smell the fish*. "Whatever," I thought. "They
might not be fresh, but I trust Hy-Vee just enough to not make us sick."

The meal turned out just fine. Brown butter, lemon zest, and garlic
cover a multitude of old seafood sins. I even toasted some slices of
leftover french bread in the butter and smeared it with tomato pesto. As
we ate, Marissa told me about all the projects she got done around the
house. "I saw what you did to our bedroom," I remarked. "It's so cozy
now, I almost feel lucky I get to sleep there." Marissa nodded. Earlier
that day, we reflected on the state of things. We've put a lot of work
into this house, but sometimes our bedroom goes unnoticed. For the
longest time, we didn't even have a bed - it was just a mattress on the
corner.

I led Rodney upstairs to bed. We had a small confrontation that led me
to raise my voice. "Dada go drink water you'll feel better," he said
drying up his tears. "You want a glass of water?" I asked. "No," he
insisted. "Dada drink water and feel better." He led me by the hand over
to the sink, and poured me a half glass of water from the sink, handing
it to me. "See? All better."

Though sweet, that moment was kind of puzzling to me. Later Marissa
clarified. "He woke up crying one night, and I told him drinking a glass
of water would make him feel better," she explained. It's sweet that he
took it as life advice. And he's not wrong, is he? Getting a glass of
water always makes you feel better.

That's what I got today. Hope you have a wonderful Tuesday. Rodney
reminds you that if you're upset about something today, take time to get
a glass of water. It will make you feel better.

