---
title: blippi, running guy, and a story with mimi
banner: 2020-05-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Aren't you glad you made it to Friday?  This
week kind of flew by, and I'm grateful that we're coming up on another
weekend.

Now you might be thinking, _What's so different about the weekend,
Alex?_ _What difference does it make whether it's Thursday, Friday, or
Monday?_ To be honest, not much.  It takes work to ensure that each
day feels different than the last, and sometimes I think I have to
fake it a bit.  But I remain confident that treating the days of the
week like they still mean something is my secret weapon in keeping the
_cheese from sliding off my cracker_, so to speak.

How is Friday different?  On Friday's, Marissa and I share a beer
during lunch.  There are also no weekly chores for us to do on Friday.
There's also a special bottle of beer sitting in the fridge that we've
been reserving for Friday.

_Sip_.  And speaking of maintaining the structure of a regular week,
yesterday was Thursday, and I like to take it easy on Thursdays.  In
the morning, after a short and sweet breakfast, Rodney and I hung
around the house while Marissa caught up on sleep.  Rodney took in
some Blippi while I tidied things up on the family computer.

Did I mention that Blippi has made his way back into our life?  For
the uninitiated, Blippi is a lovable jackass who makes YouTube videos
for children, and his videos are so effective in holding their
attention that it's actually kind of disturbing, like he's some kind
of Seattle hipster pied piper.  Deep down, every parent must hate
Blippi because he's the one person in the universe who their kids
trust as much as them.

Our house had to take a break from Blippi.  There was an episode where
he was showing kids how neat it was to play with power tools, and,
with the under-emphasized nuance of parental supervision completely
lost on Rodney, we caught him messing with a power outlet.  The small
incident scared us, so we banned Blippi.

One morning, Rodney asked to watch Blippi.  "Blippi is broken right
now, dude," I said, parroting our carefully rehearsed angle.  Rodney
reappeared moments later holding a screwdriver.

"Dada, I fixed Blippi," he said.  The dishonesty wasn't sitting right
with us, and so we revised our story to be a little more honest: "We
don't like Blippi.  We don't think he's good."  Talk about not pulling
any punches, right?  This response caused Rodney to just walk away and
sulk.  There were other shows that held his attention - _Dinotrux_,
_X-Men_, and good 'ol _Paw Patrol_, but he was still asking for
_Blippi_ once a week.

"I think we should bring Blippi back," I said to Marissa on the porch
after Rodney went to bed.  "He's still asking for it months later."

Marissa sighed.  "I'm still mad at Blippi," she replied.

"It doesn't sit right with me that he's still asking for him months
later.  If it didn't matter to him, he would have forgotten about it
by now," I said thoughtfully.  "We're not getting this genie back in
the bottle."

That's the story about how Blippi wormed his way back into our life.
Rodney is happy to have Blippi back, but he almost lost the privilege
this week.  While we were giving each other nicknames, he started to
refer to Marissa as _dee dee_, which is the name of Blippi's real life
girlfriend and frequent guest on the show.

"DUDE, YOU'RE ON THIN ICE!" said Marissa in a comically angry voice,
shaking her fist.

"You're DEE DEE!" yelled Rodney, laughing.

"Dude, this is not advised.  I don't think you appreciate how delicate
this whole Blippi thing is," I laughed.

_Sip_.  Marissa took Miles to the doctor yesterday.  The little tank
is already a whole pound overweight.  While they were at the doctor,
Rodney and I took the dogs for a walk.

Have you ever walked beside someone who was bad at walking?  Maybe
they don't walk in a straight line, or they don't have the self
awareness to know how much shoulder rubbing is normal.  Maybe they're
just a little too clumsy, and you sometimes get caught in the mayhem
of them tripping over their own feet.

One understated drawback of kids is how terrible they are at walking.
Rodney's intentions are great - he tries to walk beside me and help me
hold the dogs' leashes, but he just ends of getting tangled, tripped
up in my stride, and when he falls, the whole caravan needs to stop to
address the damage.

The best version of Rodney that can join you on a walk is _Running
Guy_.  _Running Guy_ is a character of his that likes to sprint ahead
of the caravan, usually wielding a foam sword or a stick in his hand.
_Running Guy_ likes to stay one or two driveways ahead, chasing the
feeling of independence.  Meanwhile, I'm free to walk at a normal
pace, unencumbered by the clumsy footing of a toddler.

The one drawback of _Running Guy_ is that he likes to forage for food.
In between swiftly dashing across brick dividers and stepping between
bushes, _Running Guy_ will tactically crouch beside a plant, pluck off
a leaf or thick blade of grass, and stick it in his mouth.

I scolded Rodney.  "DON'T.  EAT.  PLANTS."  _Running Guy_ gave me a
skiddish look - a blade of grass hanging out of his mouth.  Then he
continued on his way.  Occasional sidewalk snacking aside, _Running
Guy_ is still may favorite companion to have on a walk.

After dinner, we did a Duo session on the couch with Mimi and Poppa.
She read him a book called _I Love You, Stinky Face_.  It was a cute
book, the premise revolving around a child challenging his mother's
love with "What if I was a monster?" or "What if I were a big scary
crocodile?"

"Should I keep going?" asked Mimi after finishing the third page.

"He's been sitting still this entire time," I replied.  "I think
you're onto something."

Mimi finished the book, and Rodney smiled.  "What a surprise, dude," I
said.  "I think that counts for tonight's story.  Thanks for reading
to us!"

Thanks for stopping by, this morning.  Have a wonderful Friday.
