---
title: looting, water testing, and high altitude goat farmers
banner: 2020-06-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday, and happy first day of June.
Regrettably, it seems the theme of at least the early stages of Summer
will be rioting.  Last night was day 2 of the violent protesting.
Marissa and I gathered in the dining room this morning, filling up our
mugs with first sips of coffee while we sleepily flicked through the
news on our phones.

"Looks like more looting happened last night - and more arrests," I
said.

"Did you think it would go on this long?" asked Marissa.

I nodded, taking a swig of coffee.  "I'm a little surprised - I didn't
think we had it in us to stretch this out another day."

I have mixed feelings about the protest.  It's sad to watch your city
struggle under these conditions.  There's a palpable feeling of
unrest, even just sitting outside in our backyard.  But I can't help
but feel a sense of camaraderie with how frustrated the younger
generation is feeling amidst this crisis.

And we found the city's response somewhat disappointing as well.
Marissa and I turned on the live feed of the mayor's address during
the first night, expecting to hear answers and facts.  When did this
start?  What areas are at risk?  Who made the first move?  What is the
escalation plan?  But the mayor only offered stern, lecturing words.
_Violence will not be tolerated.  Looting will be punished._

"What do you think about the all the looting going on?" asked Marissa,
as we all sat in the car on the way to _Pet World_.  Rodney cradled
our dead... _erm_ sick... shrimp friend in a plastic bag in his lap in
the back seat, quietly listening and watching out the window.

"Oof, it feels a lot different when it's your city," I sighed.  "I'm
going to be honest with you, I don't really feel much sympathy for,
like, Underarmor and Target.  All there stuff is insured, so it's more
just an attack on insurance companies.  But the smaller shops getting
hit - the ones that are just run by one family..."

"That makes me sad," said Marissa, finishing my thought.

"Exactly - that sucks," I said, nodding.  "The fact that they got
caught up in this seems a little misguided."

"Should we take a drive by State street and check it out?" asked
Marissa.

We slowly circled the capital building.  As we passed by State Street,
we craned our necks to get a good view of the carnage.

"There's nothing there," I chuckled.  "Of course Madison had it all
cleaned up already.  I read that there were something like a thousand
volunteers to show up to help."

"There there, lil' guy," said Rodney in the back seat.  I turned to face
him.  Rodney was patting the plastic bag with a gentle hand,
whispering comforting words to our shrimp friend, whose rigid body was
now turned upside down at the bottom of the bag.

"It's alright dude," I said.  "We're gonna get your little guy to the
doctor, he's just feeling a little sick right now."

We picked up some Culver's, and after scarfing down our food in the
parking lot, Marissa and Rodney masked up and headed inside to Pet
World, Rodney still gently cupping the plastic bag with two careful
hands.  I bobbed Miles on my lap in the front seed, propping him up on
my knee to shield his eyes from the bright afternoon sun.  Marissa
returned empty handed with Rodney some time later.

"So that was a little disappointing," said Marissa.  "Their free water
test was the exact same test kit we had at home, and of course, we
passed."

"Interesting," said, tracking the story while strapping Miles back in
his car seat.

"And I don't know if the guy working today was incompetent or what,
but he just blankly stared at me and told me that normally 'usually
people have more obvious problems'," she continued, putting the car in
drive and creeping out into the nearby intersection.  "The guy said
our calcium was high, so we can keep an eye on that.  But personally,
I think the acclimation process did him in - we need to stretch that
out," said Marissa.

And so the quest for a saltwater fish tank continues, this week giving
us new threads to pull on.  After a water change and a few days of
fine tuning the pH, we're going to try another shrimp, this time
extending the acclimation process.  "The guy told me to use two cups
over an hour, but that felt like the shorter end of the spectrum, you
know?" explained Marissa.  "I feel like _little guy_ could have used
at least two to three hours."

I cooked dinner as Rodney and Marissa napped, waking them up to a
rustic bowl of pinto beans, pork, cabbage, and vegetable mash.  I
goaded Rodney into cleaning his bowl, but I noticed Marissa stopped
eating her bowl a little too soon.

"So tell me what happened here, why didn't you like this food?" I said
to Marissa, tipping her bowl to see the pile of uneaten food balled up
in the corner.  Marissa cracked a smile as I continued to
pretend-berate her.  "What?  Not enough vegetables for you?  We're
eating like freaking high altitude goat farmers tonight, look at all
the freakin' veggies I put in here," I exclaimed.

"OK, you got me excited about carbonara - you mentioned it in passing
last night."

"CARBONARA?" I shot back.  "You don't like carbonara - I thought the
eggs bothered you?"

"I don't like carbonara, but I got _excited_ about trying it again.
Then I had to shift gears for..." Marissa pushed her fork around her
near empty bowl.

"... high altitude goat farmer mash?" I added.  "Rodney is having some
more _tummix_ issues lately, so I'm trying to lay off the fatty stuff
until he gets regular again.  Carbonara would have been the, um, _cork
in the bottle_ so to speak."

"I'm sorry," said Marissa.  "It was good, just not expecting it."

"No, it's OK.  I understand, and I'll happily snack on something with
you tonight after Rodney goes to bed," I replied.  "The cabbage,
celery, and pork were kind of fun, I accidentally recreated a
nostalgic taste for me.  Doesn't that just immediately make you think
of Chinese takeout?"

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
