---
title: a clean fridge, french salads, and paella with rodney
banner: 2020-10-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  I hope the week is going
well for you so far, and that you can find the strength today to
finish things out.

This morning, I'm feeling a little out of it.  You see, I like to
clean out my fridge every Wednesday night, which inevitably leads to
lots of taste testing, which further leads to snacking.  Between
olives out of the jar, wedges of cheese, a butt of bread, and the
bottle of wine we broke into, I rolled out of bed this morning feeling
like some kind of gluttonous Roman emperor.  Too often, my Wednesday
nights become their own miniature Friday night - a Friday _light_,
maybe.  Not quite as debaucherous as the real thing, but still brutal
in the middle of the week.

I'll get there.  With each sip of coffee, I can feel my brain slowly
lighting up again.  And it's nice to have a clean fridge today.  The
vegetable drawer was starting to spill over into the common shelf and
I had fallen behind on washing and peeling some carrots.  There's only
so many things that can go wrong if, at least, your fridge is clean.

"Look at this," I said to Marissa, standing at the door of the kitchen
with two bags of vegetables.  "This is kind of an unforeseen drawback
of buying those fancy colorful carrots I like."

"What do you mean?" asked Marissa.

"We eat all the yellow, orange, and purple ones first, leaving us with
the pale carrots," I said.  "Coincidentally, they're the exact same
color as the parsnips."

I held up the second bag of parsnips beside the carrots.  Marissa
began to chuckle.

"See?  Virtually indistinguishable."

"Well they taste different, right?" asked Marissa.

"Oh sure," I replied.  "Of course they taste different.  But I'm going
to open this bag and smell it every time I forget which is which?  Who
has that kind of time?"

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  I capitalized on a day without
meetings to take this week's task over the finish line.  Nothing left
to do this week but update some documentation and install my code in
our production environment.  And since I'd be signing on later that
night for an evening infrastructure change, I took an extra long
lunch.

For lunch, we heated up the rest of Marissa's braised pork and made
some sandwiches.  As of late, our go to sandwich has been two slices
of sourdough, turkey, swiss, and a little French salad I whip together
with sliced cabbage, sunflower oil, white wine vinegar, and red pepper
flakes.

And speaking of French salads, they have single handedly restored my
faith in salads.  I used to hate making salads.  I hated the silly
farm imagery and flowery names on the bottles of dressing.  I hated
how much space Romaine lettuce takes up in your fridge, how quickly it
goes bad, and how long it takes to rinse and dry.  And don't even talk
to me about salad spinners, because those also take up too much space.

But the beauty of the French salad is that it works with almost any
vegetable, and the quick dressing thrown together from literally any
kind of oil and vinegar combination actually gets more delicious as it
sits in the fridge.  In an instant, you can magically compress an
entire cabbage into a compact, fridge stable slurry of deliciousness.
Needless to say, it makes for a great sandwich topping too.

After finishing out the work day, I made my way into the kitchen to
start on the paella.  I got a little ambitious about the ingredients I
used, at suddenly while trying to get dinner in the oven by 6:30 so
we'd have time to let it cool and eat it before my change window, I
felt pressed for time.

"Dada," said Rodney.  "I have some candy corn?"

"No, dude," I said, hurriedly bouncing between the sink, fridge, and
stove.  "Just wait until dinner."

"Dada," said Rodney.  "I have paw patrol fruits?"

"No dude," I said.  "We're gonna eat soon, no snacks."

"Dada," said Rodney.  "I have a piece carrot?"

"Sure," I said curtly.  "You can eat all the carrots you want.  In
your paella.  For dinner."

Rodney started to dig his step ladder out of the corner of the
kitchen.  "Dada, I help," he said.

I snipped at him.  "No," I said.  "Not this one dude, Daddy's in kind
of a hurry."  Rodney slinked out of the kitchen, hanging his head in
disappointment.  My impatient words bounced around in my head after he
left.  After I had finished prepping the ingredients, I wandered into
the living room after him.

"Rod?" I called out.  The TV was on, there were toys strewn on the
ground, but Rodney was nowhere to be found.

"Rod?" I called out again.  I saw a pile of blankets on the ground -
blankets that we usually kept in the ottoman compartment by our couch.

"Ah," I laughed.  I bent over to open the lid of the ottoman.  Rodney
was stuffed inside, holding his little keychain flashlight close to
his chest.  He was wearing his night vision goggles.

"Sorry for snipping, dude," I said.  "Hey, I could use some help now.
What do you say?"

Rodney was quick to forgive, trotting into the kitchen after me.  I
put him to work swirling a little pot of chicken stock simmering with
shrimp shells.

"OK, dude," I said.  "We gotta work fast.  I'm going to pour the broth
in, and we need to arrange the shrimp and red pepper slices on the top
as quickly as possible."

Rodney nodded, holding the bowl of red peppers at the ready.  I tipped
the pot into the skillet.  It hissed and gurgled over the rice.

"GO!" I yelled.  Rodney and I took turns dispensing peeled shrimp and
red peppers.  Only half of Rodney's peppers made it to the dish.  He
ate the rest.

"Dude, you're just like some kind of snack monster, aren't you?" I
laughed.

I had a nice half hour to enjoy paella and wine at the table before I
had to head upstairs for my team's opschange.  I sat down at the
computer and joined the zoom call with a glass of wine.  Sathish and I
watched some dashboards and monitors while Alex proceeded with the
change.

"Last node," announced Alex merely twenty minutes later.

"Do you think you can sand bag this one a little?" I asked.  "If you
finish too quickly, I might actually have to put Rodney to bed."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day, everyone.
