---
title: paintings, snow, and goulash
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! That was definitely one of the busier weekends
I've had. This morning, as I was showering, getting dressed, and
sleepily passing through my morning routine like a lifeless ghost, I
mentally sang that song from the movie *Sing* - you know the one that
the gorilla kid sings? *I'm* *still standing - yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm
still standing - yeah, yeah,* *yeahâ€¦* And while being at my breaking
point on a Monday morning doesn't sound very promising, the end is in
sight. Most of yesterday was spent preparing Marissa's three giant
paintings for their trip to New York. I'm working from home this morning
so I can help get it in the truck.

We got some good relaxing in yesterday morning, at least. The family
slept in, eating eggs on the couch and watching YouTube videos while I
finished writing. We got changed and headed out for the day, starting
things off with a Portillo's lunch. We grabbed a spot in the back and
sank into the comfy booths, eager to dig into Italian beef, chicken
tenders, fries, and a chocolate shake. As we finished eating, we got a
little more serious about planning the day before departing for Hy-Vee
to pick up groceries.

"I love it when we all pick up groceries together," I said walking
through the Hy-Vee parking lot. "We always have better snacks in the
house when Momma comes with." Rodney reach out and grabbed my hand as we
crossed the road in front of Hy-Vee, stretching his other arm out to the
sky, making a *woosh* sound. As in our custom, he was initiating *spider
shoot webs*, where I pick him up and let him swing all the way up to the
door.

We picked up groceries, then headed home. Marissa put Rodney down for a
nap, then one by one, we moved the large paintings to our front porch so
Marissa could get some pictures. For such a simple task as standing
outside and taking pictures of Marissa in front of a painting, I had
difficulty hiding my grumpiness about the whole thing. "I don't know
what it is," I'd say to her later trying to suss out my frustration with
Marissa in the dining room over some tea. "Maybe I just feel silly
standing out in the snow taking a photo, or maybe I don't like having to
march back to you in between takes to show you the photo."

We moved the paintings back inside, and Marissa continued touching up
the sides with white paint while I moved outside to shovel some snow.
Short on time before I had to start dinner, I only managed to finish our
back porch and half the driveway. The neighbors were also out, and even
though I was in a bad mood, I still offered up my usual small talk about
shoveling snow. "Happy February, huh? Oh NOW we get snow, right? Great
workout! Hey, I think you missed a spot!"

I headed back into the kitchen, kicking the wet snow off my boots and
exchanging my coat for a cooking apron. For dinner, I was making beef
goulash. I cubed some chuck roast and browned it in a pan, later adding
onions. I toasted caraway seeds, paprika, and cayenne papper, de-glazing
the pan with chicken stock and moving everything to my dutch oven to let
the mixture simmer. The stock had already taken on the color of
chocolate, and the hot smoky spices lingered in the air. I would let it
simmer for an hour while Rodney, awake from his nap, helped pull some
marjoram leaves apart. Rodney had just woken up from his long nap, and
at first when he marched into the kitchen, he had made up his mind about
cooking himself a box of paw patrol mac 'n cheese, but he eventually
came around to what I was making for dinner. I served the goulash on
some buttered shell pasta with a dollop of sour cream. "I'm relieved
that this tastes good," said Marissa at the table. "It smelled so strong
in the kitchen, I was starting to get worried."

"That must have been the spices I was toasting," I replied. "It started
to smoke, and I'm not sure if that was supposed to happen, so I killed
the heat."

Putting Rodney to bed, we decided to break out his new bilingual Dutch
childnren's book, *Jojo's Speeldag*. It's a book about an elephant who,
rather than eating his dinner, wanders away and screws around in the
forest. Of course a Dutch book would be about not cleaning your plate,
right? Rodney was intrigued. I alternated between English on every page,
mixing in some fun new words like *snuffel* (an elephant's trunk) and
*fruitbomen* (fruit tree). "How did he like the book?" asked Marissa.
"He didn't even notice," I laughed. "We could have been reading to him
in another language all this time for all he knew."

After putting Rodney to bed, I rejoined Marissa in the dining room to
finish packing the paintings. It was a challenge. We wrapped the
paintings in bubble wrap, then upon realizing they wouldn't fit in the
boxes, unwrapped them. We cleared the table, flipping the paintings over
the top and shoving the box from the other end like a sheath. Marissa
repaired the box, which had ripped at the edges from the friction, and
meanwhile I stole away to move a filing cabinet into the basement.
Finally, we turned the boxes on each corner, wrapping the outsides with
seran wrap and cushioning the corners before finally bundling them all
together as a towering mass of cardboard and plastic - the very same
towering mass that looms over our dining room computer while I write
this morning. I opened a beer, and we retreated upstairs, collapsing in
our bedroom chairs.

We congratulated ourselves for the massive effort, then planned out the
rest of the week before watching a movie on the couch. I broke out some
chips and salsa, and Marissa stuck to the usual pregnancy craving
inspired evening snack.

This morning, I'm hanging around the house so we can together lift the
massive beast in the truck, which will carry the paintings to their new
home in New York. The paintings are quite beautiful. I did my best
yesterday to find time between the shlepping, photos, taping, hoisting,
and lifting to just stop and look at them. Once the paintings are in the
truck, we're going to celebrate with a pizza lunch. I think I might even
get a beer.

Hope you have a wonderful day today.

