---
title: training sessions, ninja swords, broken computers, and crunchwrap supremes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Firstly, I'd like to congratulate you on making
it to Thursday. The weather got colder this week, which is a real
bummer. It feels like we should be well into spring now. What a cruel
joke the Midwest likes to play on us every year. Crummy weather. Lots of
people are out sick. Coronavirus is still running amuck in the world.
It's a tough week for us, but at least it's Thursday, and that means
we're almost done with it all. Soon we'll have a weekend to regroup and
come back next week renewed and refreshed.

I'm feeling good today. I've been rocking my usual 6.5 hours of sleep
every night. I'm staying on top of chores, and the kitchen is busy. I'm
looking forward to heading into work today and getting stuff done.

Yesterday was pretty much a onboarding day. Three of us from the
onboarding squad take turns giving three total sessions of talks. Mine
wouldn't be until the afternoon, but I met up with the group in the
morning to learn names.

As an icebreaker, we went around the room and, pairing with our general
introductions, had to also introduce our most frequently used emoji.
"This right here is *man in a steamy room*, I announced to the room
pointing at my drawing at the tip of my pen. "First off, this is a
default emoji. Comes in the stock set, which makes it that much more
surprising." Some chuckles were heard around the room. "Also, it's just
a great analogy - comes in handy when you're in a *hot* situation at
work, like an outage or trying to keep something from blowing up. I'm
the man in a steamy room - but look, he's smiling. Still a great
attitude."

I met up with the group again around 12 o'clock for lunch. Someone from
the headquarters in San Francisco ordered lunch for us. "Isn't that
funny - that someone from San Francisco called a place next to us and
ordered lunch?" said Andrew. I grabbed a salad and joined the group at
the table. They were sharing observations about the training material.

I remembered I had an crunchwrap supreme in the fridge that I brought
from home. Now that I was eating a salad, that would go to waste if I
didn't act. So on an impulse, I left for the kitchen, cutting up the
crunchwrap supreme into wedges and returning with them on a plate. "Here
we go," I said placing the plate on the table. "This is what I was going
to eat for lunch, but I forgot they were ordering for us today. It's a
homemade crunchwrap supreme."

It's not a particularly difficult recipe to make. Just ground beef,
refried beans, a tostada, sliced tomatoes, lettuce, and sour creme - all
wrapped in a big tortilla in the shape of a pentagon and browned in some
butter. But crunchwraps are always a hit - they make for good leftovers
in the fridge, and in this case, a great snack to pad a very light salad
lunch.

Finally in the afternoon, I returned to the training room for my
session. Up until this point, I've been referring to it as a
*presentation*, but even that makes it sound like a much bigger deal
than it was. It was more like taking a group of six people through a
slide deck.

In the past year or so of work, I've discovered that I have some public
speaking ticks and quirks. I like to stand by a whiteboard and fiddle
with a dry erase marker, even if I don't plan on using it. I like to
draw simple boxy diagrams for things that might not absolutely need a
diagram. If the material is very technical, I like to tell stories *from
the trenches* to make the material seem more exciting or important. Also
in recent years, I started doing this thing where I rhetorically ask
*…right?* to the room after every other sentence. Not sure where that
came from.

At quitting time, I jumped on a bus and headed home. It was cool in
afternoon, and after being in and out of the stuffy training room all
day, it felt good to step outside and feel cold air on my face. I jumped
on a bus and headed home.

Back at home, we had lots of mail on the counter - one box being
Rodney's six foam ninja swords. We ordered these as a treat for having a
good attitude during our week staying at the temporary house. I carried
two of the swords upstairs, and while Rodney was still asleep in his
bed, crept into his room.

"*RODNEY*," I hissed, crouched by his bed side, brandishing the foam
ninja swords. "*YOU'RE SHREDDER*." Rodney rolled over in his bed,
confused, blinking himself awake.

"No… YOU'RE SHREDDER," he replied, finally cracking a smile. He studied
the swords, taking one into his hand.

"We got these for you, dude!" I said, handing him the other. "We thought
you were such a champ during that week we moved out, so we wanted to get
you something special. And you kept swinging all your other toys around
like swords, so we figured, you know, you probably needed some swords
and these ninja swords looked pretty cool."

Rodney rose to his feet and began swinging the swords around, then he
handed me one. "Dada, you're shredder," he said, taking a fighting
stance.

"I'M SHREDDER," I growled, swinging and stabbing back.

After a quick sword fight, Rodney and I got our shoes on and jumped in
the car, headed for the grocery store. As I rolled our shopping cart up
and down the narrow aisles of Jenny street, Rodney stalked vigilantly
behind me - his two ninja swords protruding out of the waistband of his
khakis. He only briefly left his post to check out the live lobster
tank, which was just fine.

Back at home, I switched the TV from *The Office* over to ninja turtles.
Rodney stood in front of the TV in a fighting stance to take it all in,
and I got to cooking bacon, onion, and kale hash in the kitchen. Marissa
joined me and chatted about the day.

After eating and putting Rodney to bed, I finished my chores, then
slipped upstairs to work on my new NAS build. Yesterday I wanted to
perform a quick test boot with the new motherboard. I cleared off my
desk, unfurled a long VGA cable, and hooked up the monitor and power
cables. I plugged in the power cable. A single pale, green light
illuminated on the board, but there was no beeping, nor video signal.

"That's pretty much the worst thing that can happen to a new computer,"
I explained to Marissa on the couch later that night. "That's a tough
one to debug. It could be… maybe six different things causing it to not
boot, but how do you know? The screen is black, it's not like it tells
you what the problem is."

Before the failed boot, I actually considered taking a picture of my
workstation. I was proud of how hands-on everything looked on my clean
desk, with the motherboard exposed and neatly wired up. But all that
pride flew out the window when it failed to boot.

"I'm going to try again this weekend," I said to Marissa. In the spirit
of licking my wounds from the failed mid week tech project, I heated up
a leftover crunch wrap supreme, dabbing it with hot sauce and making my
way to the TV.

Thanks for stopping by this morning. I hope you have a wonderful
Thursday.

