---
title: shredhead, ebay police, and french sauces
banner: 2020-07-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to Tuesday.  I hope this summer, this
week, this morning is treating you well so far.

Drinking this cup of coffee, I feel so spoiled today.  Yesterday, we
got a fresh new bag of coffee in the mail, and it happened to also
fall on the same day where I de-lime the coffee machine every month.
So as long as I had some coffee stuff to put away, I decided to give
the coffee machine a detail cleaning.  I took out every component,
rinsed it, and let them dry on a towel all night - the premium
package.  And after re assembling or coffee grinder, brewer, and
carafe and making a fresh pot with newly opened beans... ooh boy, this
is good stuff.

_Sip_.  We had a pretty good day yesterday.  We decided to lay low and
hang around the house until Kelly and Jeremy picked up Jojo.  Jojo was
so excited to go home that she climbed out of the tub and even wagged
her tail a bit, but being a few hours early, she would spend the rest
of the morning awkwardly standing around in the living room.

"It was so nice having you, Jojo.  I hope you had a restful weekend in
our tub," I said.  Jojo, unaffected by my polite words, stared at me
blankly.  After being a guest in someone's home for a whole weekend,
she was probably just feeling socially drained, and I could understand
that feeling.  If I were her, I'd be a little zapped too.  "Don't
worry, Jojo.  Soon you'll be in your own tub."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/jojo-stare.jpg">
    <img alt="jojo stare" src="/images/jojo-stare.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I'm a dog.  Where is my dad?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Kelly and Jeremy parked in our driveway.  Jeremy stopped at our dining
room window.  Jojo stood on her hind legs and gave him a kiss through
the window - her tail thumping wildly.

"Awww," said Marissa.  "She probably missed her daddy so much.  This
is literally the most excited she's been all weekend."

Marissa took Miles to the doctor, leaving me and Rodney to hang around
the house.  I put on some Blippi for Rodney and caught up on some
cleaning, but after the first video, Rodney wandered into the kitchen
looking for a fight.  We're back to the _super hero Rodney_ persona,
for those wondering.  That's the one where Rodney wears one of
Marissa's braided headband on his head and a pair of thick, wooly
socks on his arms pulled tight past his elbows.  Rodney was in full
super hero gear, but he looked sad.

"Oh no," said Rodney.  "Dada - you're not _shredhead_ anymore."  I
turned, shutting off the sink faucet and patting my hands dry on my
apron.

"What do you mean I'm not _shredhead_ anymore," I replied.

"Dada," said Rodney.  "You lost your power."  I finally caught on.
Rodney wasn't really sad - this was just a bit.

"HA," I scoffed.  "You think I can just _lose_ my power?" I hissed,
approaching Rodney with menacing steps.  "Do you know how _powerful_ I
am?"  My fists curled, and Rodney took a fighting stance.  I scooped a
foam sword off the ground.

"THERE IS NO END TO MY POWER!" I shouted, brandishing the foam sword.
"FOR I AM _SHREDHEAD_.  I WILL DESTROY YOU."

Rodney handed me his toy night vision goggles.  That was my cue to
affix them backwards around my face so the battery back would cover my
mouth - a homemade Shredder mask.  Rodney dodged my fearsome slashes
with his super speed.

"I WILL CRUSH YOU" I shrieked, lobbing Rodney onto the couch like a
throw pillow.

After re-filling the Blippi video hopper, I recused myself from battle
so I could get back to work.  The next chore of the day was relisting
Marissa's camera on ebay.  Initially, I went with the lazy option of
just letting ebay provide it's own stock image of the camera.  I would
have thought this concept of "least effort first" was pretty
universal - after all, the camera lens sold just fine without homemade
pictures.  But my ebay inbox was buried in a barrage of oddly smug
messages lecturing me about how I should never sell anything without
an image of the actual product.  "You must be new to ebay" writes one
user.  "You must always include a picture of the product otherwise it
won't sell."

I was tempted to be a smart ass.  I thought about replying "But this
_is_ my camera - how do I take a picture of a camera?", stringing them
along in a long, pointless, frustrating conversation with someone
playing dumb out of revenge.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/camera.jpg">
    <img alt="camera" src="/images/camera.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I don't understand, sir.  Do I need to use mirrors?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

So I re-listed it.  This time, I wrote my own description and included
plenty of glamour shots.  And now my phone is ringing off the hook
with bids.  And no more smug messages from the volunteer ebay police
either.

Even though I don't know anything about photography, I found plenty to
admire about her camera.  It's heavy, sturdy.  It feels like a machine
crafted with precision.  No smudges, scratches, or even finger prints.
The whole thing just looks so timeless and classy.  This camera is
going to make someone very happy.

Later that afternoon, after a quick nap, I made my way through the
living room to start on dinner.  Miles was angrily hissing and
stirring in his crib, no doubt feeling sore and achy from the shots he
received at the doctor.  Marissa gave me a sad look from the couch.

"Ah, could you not sleep?" I asked.  Marissa wearily shook her head.
"He's just too fussy from the doctor.  Could we put him in the
kitchen?"

I set up Miles in his chair in the corner of the kitchen while I
started on dinner.  First order of business was getting a pan of yukon
gold potatoes and Brussels sprouts in the oven.  Next, I sauteed some
mushrooms and set them aside.  For the main course, I browned some
pork medallions in a pan and made a creme garlic pan sauce.  The pork
loin was still a bit frozen in the middle, so they proved to be a bit
of a battle, but I was much happier with the sauce this time around.
I gave it plenty of time to reduce and infuse with the mushrooms.

Sauce can be difficult.  Managing heat, saltiness, consistency,
thickness, timing - it can be tricky keeping all the variables in
check.  After trying a few French sauces on my own at home, it's easy
to see why a _saucier_ is a dedicated job in the French kitchen.

Miles was still fussing angrily in the corner.  Rodney had wandered
into the kitchen and proceeded to slosh a wet cardboard box around the
floor.

"What is this?  What are you doing?" I said looking down at Rodney.

"I'm cleaning," he said.  I gruffly handed Rodney a wad of paper
towels.

"Here - now _really_ clean it," I muttered.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a great day, everyone.
