---
title: on-call, skyfall, and wasting time on the internet
banner: 2020-12-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends.  Happy Monday.  You know, Mondays aren't all
bad.  Sure, it sort of stings waking up early the first time after a
few days.  But there's an aspect to Mondays that feel restorative and
redemptive.  Busily, tiredly shuffling through my kitchen gathering up
empty beer bottles and re-shelving the late night snacking
paraphanelia, I'm motivated by a fresh start and a new work day.  This
Monday feels restorative.

Let's be honest - I'm in a good mood because my on-call shift finally
ended.  As we say around this family, "right now is the longest time
before I have to do [insert loathsome activity here] again".  No more
showering with my phone on the bathmat.  No more napping with my phone
tucked beside my head.  Today, turning my phone back to silent feels
as cathartic as when I went full Peter Gibbons on our noisy,
malfunctioning carbon monoxide detector only a few days ago.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling this Monday?  Are you feeling good and
ready to ride into battle alongside our other work week comrades?  Or
is my enthusiasm just irritating?  And more importantly, how was your
weekend?

Sadly, I've already recapped pretty much the entire weekend.  The
narrow time gap between Sunday evening's post and Monday morning's
post pose a real creative writing challenge.  The only thing I've done
since we've last been together virtually is share a bottle of wine and
a bowl of fruit loops with Marissa and finish watching the movie
_Skyfall_.  I'm not particularly keen on filling the time talking
about James Bond, but what can I say?  Writing on Mondays, beggars
can't be choosers.

Once again marching through the Daniel Craig series of James Bond
movies has given me an appreciation for how different they are.  Same
actors, same basic premise, even the same formula.  There's an opening
chase to get you hooked, a coincidental run in with a hot babe who
leads him to the villain, and there's a chase and a stand-off in which
the villain gets away.  But James Bond, always _the exemplar of
British fortitude_ tracks down the bad guy and takes him down by the
end of the movie.  And of course, he gets the afformentioned hot babe
too.

But like I said, coming back to these movies after so long, I've grown
to appreciate the diversity in feel and quality.  Casino Royale is
embarassingly bad, but kind of fun to watch while you're drinking.
Quantum of Solace is a flimsy, vexing mess.  Skyfall is a damn
masterpiece.  In fact Skyfall is so good that it proved to be the only
Daniel Craig Bond movie that I actually remembered, and I convinced
myself that all the good scenes from that movie were sprinkled
throughout the other inferior ones.

To loosely quote Samuel Jackson's character in _Kingsman_, a spy movie
is only as good as the villain.  Let's take a minute to appreciate how
good the villain was in Skyfall.  The way he silently descends in an
elevator and calmly walks through a makeshift server farm in his
derelict building.  His weirdly perfect bleach blond hair, and the
strange swallowing sound in the way he speaks which he later reveals
is due to a botched cyanide capsule suicide.

I tried to nitpick.  While he was telling his long-winded allegory
about how his grandmother taught him to rid their small island of
rats, I liberally interjected with my own snark.

"Why would you let the last two rats out?" I quipped.  "That will
really backfire when they just start having babies and you get rats
again."  How predictable that I always feel the need to insert my own
wisdom from dealing with a rat infestation.

Skyfall left us pleased.  Next up is _Spectre_.  While trying to
recount from memory what happens in _Spectre_, Marissa and I instead
got sidetracked with silly pronunciations of the word _Spectre_.

"Is it _speck-tray_?" said Marissa.

"No, it's _speek-tar_," I snickered.

"SA-peck-tire," laughed Marissa.

"SPANK-TRAY," I echoed back.

And after pulling on the "silly pronunciations of the word _spectre_"
bit for as long as I could, I'm officially out of James Bond talking
points.  For the next portion of blog fodder, I have a brief
reflection on wasting time on the Internet.

Yesterday after getting Rodney out of his room, we tip toed past a
sleeping Marissa on the couch and into the dining room.  Rodney
quickly ran back into the living room to fetch his favorite blue
pillow he likes to sit on at the computer.  Like a laboratory trained
mouse, Rodney took hold of the cursor, clicked the menu button in the
top right, and clicked the faded blue icon to open a web browser.  His
little eyes scanned the screen until he found the little "Nick Jr"
bookmark in the top of the browser window.

I left the dining room to let him play computer games in peace.  But
once the soup was simmering on the stove, I quietly took a seat at the
table behind him to observe.  I watched Rodney scroll through a bubbly
grid of thumbnails.  I saw him click through and ad and try a new game
in which he piloted a cartoon pterodactyl.  I watched him get bored
and click the bookmark again to go back to the home page where he
quickly located his favorite game _Blaze Mud Mountain Rescue_.  Rodney
watched the opening sequence, then using the space bar he helped Blaze
the monster truck evade itchy crabs using carefully timed jumps across
swinging ropes.

I love watching Rodney kill time on the computer.  Wasting time on the
Internet has always been a core part of how I motivate myself to do
work.  In junior high I used to do my homework in the basement.  I'd
arrange each subject at a different seat on our old faded beige
kitchen table.  In between math problem sets and reading assignments,
I'd reward my efforts by taking a seat at our painfully slow desktop
computer and imbibe exactly two Strongbad emails, ten White Ninja
comics, or one game of _Stinkoman_.  The Internet was a lot more fun
back then.

I found two of my favorite White Ninja web comics.  Before you get
back to work today, help yourself to a little of my childhood.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-07-white-ninja-1.gif">
<img alt="2020 12 07 white ninja 1" src="/images/2020-12-07-white-ninja-1.gif"/>
</a>
</figure>

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-07-white-ninja-2.gif">
<img alt="2020 12 07 white ninja 2" src="/images/2020-12-07-white-ninja-2.gif"/>
</a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Monday, everyone.
