---
title: when marissa brews coffee
banner: 2020-10-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope your Sunday is going well.  I'm afraid I
have some terrible news today.  It was a tough call, but after much
consideration, I've decided to ban Marissa from using the coffee
maker.

She woke up early this morning to get a jump on her virtual art show.
The night before, I set her up for success as much as I could.  I
thoroughly cleaned and rinse every piece of our coffee maker, setting
it all out to dry on the counter over a towel.  All she needed to do
was assemble it, add the beans and water, and hit the big red button
on the side.

This morning, snapping on the dining room lights, I stopped in my
tracks to behold a coffee bar in chaos.  There were dark wet grounds
caked beneath the machine, on the floor, and around the brewer.  Black
muddy liquid pooled on the counter.  The spout loosely floated on top
an overflowed carafe.  Flecks of brown liquid ran down the walls.  It
was like crime of passion committed with hot water and coffee grounds.

"I don't know what I did," protested Marissa.  "I thought I did
everything right?"

"I don't even think I could make this big of a mess if I tried," I
pressed.  "Did you use a super soaker?  A garden hose?  Did you stand
on a ladder with a pressure washer?"

Marissa was laughing too hard to defend herself.

"I've been cleaning this up for the past twenty minutes!" I yelled.
"I can't even be mad.  I'm just too puzzled.  And impressed.  And I
don't want to know what happened, but at the same time I do."

"I _don't know_ what happened!" said Marissa.  "But I'll make a deal
with you.  If you just drop it, I'll give you permissions to just
absolutely roast me in your blog."

I took the deal.  On a semi-related topic, does anyone have any
recommendations for baby proofing your coffee bar?  Ideally, we could
have some kind of parental controls, or a biometric scanner that only
heats the water if I activate it with my thumb print.  I'd consider a
child proof lock, but I worry that <s>Marissa</s> a toddler could
figure out how to open it from just fiddling with it.

Marissa would have made less of a mess if she tried brewing coffee
with water balloons.

When Marissa makes coffee, she leaves our coffee bar looking like Andy
Dufresne did when he escaped from Shawshank prison.

Marissa handles our coffee brewing equipment the same way the bear
handles Leo DiCaprio in _The Revenant_.

Marissa treats our coffee brewer like she's a bouncer at a casino, and
she just caught somebody on the floor counting cards.

Marissa is like Liam Neason in _Taken_, if his particular set of
skills also included turning a single pot of coffee into a war crime.

When Marissa makes coffee, she leaves our coffee bar looking like it
had just been vandalized by the Dave Matthews Band tour bus.

_Sip_.  How has your weekend been?  We've been laying low, enjoying
both the down time and the fluctuating fall weather.  This weekend is
Marissa's virtual art show.  She's spent most of the time hanging out
in the basement giving virtual tours whenever somebody joins her
booth.

Rodney and I joined from upstairs.  We shared our camera feed and
microphone and chatted for a few minutes.  But hilariously, Marissa
noticed that the east coast craft fair crowd isn't as interested in
her family as her Instagram followers.

"My viewer count dropped to zero as soon as Rodney starting talking,"
she laughed.  "But it's OK - everyone also leaves my room whenever I
show Ollie, Ziggy, or Miles."

Speaking of her Instagram followers, I shudder to think of what would
happen if they were to see what she did to our coffee bar this
morning.  Instagram would probably get a flood of "disturbing and
offensive image" reports and she would be banned from the platform.  I
wish I could show you a picture, but I can't find a site to upload it.
The scene of how she left our coffee bar was so disturbing, it was
even taken down from LiveLeak and World Star Hip Hop.

Leaving her stream open, Rodney and I just wrestled our bed through
the morning.  Even though our microphone and camera were disconnected,
he still tried to give her play by play commentary of the action.

Sorry, I thought of a few more.  Marissa's coffee bar is scarier than
Shelob's Lair in _Lord of the Rings_.  How about another movie fact?
Although it's never shown in the film, the "evil" from _Birdbox_ is
actually just a photograph of our coffee bar after Marissa has
finished using it.  Did you know Marissa's coffee bar inspired the
score for _Requiem for a Dream?_ Coincidentally, her coffee bar also
looked a lot like Jared Leto's arm at the end of _Requiem for a
Dream_.

Do you remember the alien from the movie _Alien_?  This morning, our
coffee bar looked like the inside of the alien's mouth.  It looked
like the bottom of the well from _The Ring_.  Marissa's coffee bar
looked like Sylvester Stallone's face at the end of _Rocky IV_.

After a weekend of eating out, I thought it would be nice to reset
things and make some vegetable soup.  With Rodney's help, I diced up
shallots, carrots, celery, green beans, and parsnip.

"What's _parsnip_?" asked Rodney.

"It's kind of like a carrot - only spicier," I replied.

After a curious sniff, Rodney pit the end of a parsnip, thoughtfully
chewing it.  "No dada," he said defiantly.  "It's _not_ spicy.  It's
tasty."

This was also the first batch of soup I've made with homemade chicken
stock, and it made for a noticeable improvement.

"I really taste a difference," said Marissa.

"I do too," I said.  "I'm still weighing the effort against the value
of making homemade stock.  I don't think we could outright replace
store bought stock, but we have enough off cuts and chicken bones to
make a batch every now and then."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful day.  Now if
you'll excuse me, I need to keep chipping away at cleaning our poor
coffee bar.
