---
title: demos, goals, and movies
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends. Happy Saturday to all of you. To set the scene
here, the whole Recker family slept in until about *kwart over tien
s'ochtends*. That's Dutch for "a quarter past ten in the morning". As
per usual, we woke to the sound of Rodney's tiny, melodic voice filling
the hallway, his faced pressed up against his cracked door, singing
*Helooooooo? Is anyone there? Can you hear me?*

"Come on in dude," called back into the hallway. Once he had permission,
Rodney walked in like he owned the place, proceeding to splay his toy
monster trucks and motorcycles over the bed.

Sitting at the dining room table, we all just finished our breakfast. I
fried a pair of eggs and made some toast for Rodney and I. "I'll just
stick to the classic pregnancy breakfast," said Marissa pouring a bowl
of Cheerios and picking a half blueberry muffin out of the plastic
container on the table.

I'm grateful we had a chance to sleep in. After putting Rodney to bed
and burning some popcorn calories in the form of chores, Marissa and I
started the movie *Parasite*. The plan was to start the movie and maybe
go to bed an hour later, but unsurprisingly, the movie held our
attention until 2 in the morning. "Finishing this movie is non
optional," I said at 1 AM getting up to grab another beer from the
fridge."

*Parasite* was a hell of a movie. It all happened so fast, I'm still
processing it. Marissa had some thoughts this morning. "I was thinking,
and maybe *the house* is the host, you know? The people, rich and poor,
were all kind of taking advantage of it."

"That's an interesting take," I said between sips of coffee. "I
definitely need to think about this movie, I'll probably be thinking
about it all day."

As I sit here, now at the computer in our bedroom drinking a crisp cup
of coffee, I'm reflecting on yesterday's work day. When I got into work
in the morning, the team was already busily making last minute touches
to our slides. We were giving a demo this morning to some other teams in
the company. The attendance list was actually looking pretty decent.
After grabbing a cup of coffee and settling in, I opened up my own
slides in preparation. I'd be presenting some of the work I did to help
the Interface team, which sits beside us, get one of their smaller
projects onto our new tool and workflow, touting them as a *customer
success story*. I chatted with their manager, Seth, over slack to get
some background context.

The morning demo went well. Our team was presenting in peak form, and
there was good engagement, curious questions, and a positive energy all
throughout. I later recounted the demo with my manager Heath later in
our one on one. "I love those demos," I said. "I think there good for
us, even if nobody shows up. It feels like it keeps us focused on what
we're building, and it's a cool way to celebrate what we've done," I
continued.

Heath leaned back in his chair and crossed his arms. "I've heard that
sentiment from everyone else on the team. How to we make sure the demos
keep happening?"

I paused, staring at the wall while I took a long, thoughtful sip from
my Diet Coke. "Come to think of it, I couldn't even tell you who set
this one up? Who normally makes the demos? I think the first step here
is to figure out who sets these up!" Heath chuckled. "I set this one up,
but I only do it if you all ask for one." I nodded. "That's good to
know, I'll try to remember to ask about it every Monday. The demos are
awesome."

Following our demo, I tried to get some traction around going out to
eat, but most of our team had already disappeared into the rest of their
day. I heated up some leftover tomato soup instead, joining some people
in the cafeteria at the corner tables. I grabbed a neighboring chair and
wedged it in so I could join my cohorts. "Hey," Andrew sneered. "That's
not an approved *configuration* of that chair." He was making a play on
words, as I worked on the *configuration* team. The trash talk and chit
chat continued as I finished my lunch before returning to my desk.

I worked through the rest of the afternoon, then we had one more wend of
the week meeting. Our team went around the room, sharing what
development goals we had selected for the first half of the year.
"Share, then tell us what we can do to help you accomplish your goal."
Heath said. "You know… apart from not making fun of you while you do
it." I chortled in the middle of sipping my beer.

As I read my goals off my phone, I shared that I've struggled with the
goals process ever since it were first introduced. "You should have seen
the first year I submitted goals. The back and forth went on for a
while. I thought we were just making new years resolutions, so I was
submitting stuff like *make better Chinese food* and *learn a new
language*." The goals are not just personal resolutions or attempts to
pick up new hobbies. They're supposed to motivate you into trying bigger
things at work, and stretching yourself to develop new skills. It was
actually pretty cool hearing about what everyone else on the team wanted
to master.

At quitting time, I took the bus home, finding Marissa painting in her
gallery and Rodney fast asleep in his room. We would leave for the movie
theater in about an hour, and after practicing Dutch completing my
push-ups and sit-ups, I was ready to sink into a relaxing evening at the
movie theater. Arriving at the cinema, we found a comfy booth in the bar
area and ordered some dinner. "I'll have a small beer now," I said to
the waitress. "Then I'll probably get a big one right before heading in.
You know, *standard procedure*." The waitress gave a knowing smile while
penning my order. "Oh yeah," she said rolling her eyes. "I know that
move."

The Sonic movie was solid. We enjoyed the whole thing. The nostalgic
reboot didn't bode well at first, but I felt they added a lot of fresh
new ideas to the film, and they put a lot of love into the story line to
keep it entertaining. It was certainly better than that god awful Scooby
Doo trailer we saw before the film started. "What's with rebooting all
the movies with babies? Baby yoda. Baby scooby doo. Baby Gru…" Marissa
complained coming out of the movie. "I think that's the new thing now,
because of the viral response that Baby Yoda got, everyone is spewing
money into baby versions of things," I said.

Rodney thoroughly enjoyed the Sonic movie. He sat at the edge of his
seat throughout. Despite the excitement from the movie, being two hours
past his bedtime, his tiredness finally got the best of him. Rodney
passed out moments after his head hit the pillow.

Thanks for reading, everyone. Hope you have a great, productive
Saturday.

