---
title: covid fights, bug hunts, and giant potato pancakes
banner: 2020-09-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Wednesday.  Here's to fresh coffee,
quiet mornings, and weeks that move more quickly than you were
expecting.  Even though I've been on call all week, my phone hasn't
made as much as a peep since Monday morning, and I'm hoping that by
pointing that out I didn't just jinx myself.

I had a good work day yesterday.  It was a satisfying combination of
variety and deep focus.  In the morning while I was sorting out my
calendar, I got a slack message in a private chat.

"So did we pick a place for today?" it read.  Last week, we had
planned on meeting somewhere for lunch.  We were going to pick some
place far away from the downtown covid hotspot.  Some place with
spacious outdoor seating and a reputation for caution.  But a real
lunch, with real people, outside - what a treat!

I waltzed into the dining room for a coffee refill, passing Marissa,
who was working on her computer at the table.

"So apparently that lunch we talked about last week is today, I must
have forgotten about it," I said.

"Lunch?" she replied.  "Oh, was that for real?  I thought you guys
were just kind of floating the idea around still."

"Well, we did say sometime next week," I said taking a sip of coffee.
"And it's sometime next week _now_."

"Oh geez hon," said Marissa.  "I don't know how comfortable I feel
about it.  I've been reading some articles, and they're saying that
people should stay away from downtown."

"Yeah I know," I replied curtly.  "That's why we picked a place that
wasn't downtown.  It's at least like four blocks away."

"What?" replied Marissa.  "That's still downtown."

"Says who?  What article are you reading?" I said, taking a seat
beside her.

Things got a little heated.  Marissa tried to back up her growing
anxiety with online articles, and completely ignoring her underlying
anxiety, I pedantically poked holes in her sources.  "That's click
bait," I snipped.  "It's not like those are peer reviewed.  They're
trying to make people scared, so they get clicks, and they get more
money..."

"I think we just need to cool off," said Marissa.  We sat at the
table in silence.

"Look, I'm sorry for passing judgment for being worried.  That
couldn't have felt good," I said.  "Can I take another stab at
explaining myself?"

Marissa nodded.

"Things are bad.  The college reopened and the case count is out of
control.  Downtown should be avoided."

Marissa nodded again, refilling her coffee mug.

"But that was just as true last week too, when we set this up and I
ran it by you," I continued.

"I guess I'm more worried about it now that it's here," shared
Marissa.  "Restaurants make me nervous.  I don't like thinking about a
waiter going from table to table.  Even if you are at a safe distance,
it still worried me."

Marissa tiredly rubbed her eyes and slid her computer aside.  "I'm
just so tired of feeling uncertain about everything.  Even the CDC has
been really shifty lately.  They keep redacting things and changing
the wording, and it makes me think Trump is pressuring them to... make
things sound better than they are.  And meanwhile, Wisconsin is
getting worse."

"Sorry I got defensive," I said.  "I just got a little anxious about
cancelling plans, and I felt like I was being coerced into making it
sound like we learned something new over the weekend that changed our
mind."

"No, that's fair," said Marissa.  "I admit it.  The only thing that's
changed is how comfortable I am with it.  Sorry to put you in a tough
spot."

"Nah, that's OK.  People have been really understanding because we
have a baby." I said, getting up from the table.  I gave Marissa a
peck on the forehead.  "One of the better COVID fights we've had,
huh?"

"Sorry fellas," I wrote in slack.  "Have to cancel today.  Just not
feeling less comfortable about it now that it's here."

My teammates, as always, were relentlessly understanding.  How silly
of me to be afraid of the backlash from calling off a lunch date.

After finishing out the work day, my phone chirped with a calendar
notification for "Science Class".

"Dude, are you ready for science class?" I asked Rodney, inviting him
out of his room.  "We're going to do something _really_ fun today."

Leaving Marissa at home to cook dinner, Rodney, Miles, and I went for
a bug hunt.  We stuffed a few ziploc bags in Rodney's backpack and
made our way down the sidewalk.

"Here's how it's going to work, dude," I said.  "Keep your eyes
_peeled_.  We're going to bag up some bugs we find, then when we get
home, we'll see if we can find them on the computer."

"Yes.  Great," said Rodney eagerly.  "Dada, my eyes are _peeled_."

We continued walking.  Rodney added his own rules.

"Dada," he said.  "When you see a caterpillar, I want you to yell
CATERPILLAR.  Try it now."

"CATERPILLAR!" I yelled.

The bug hunt got off to a great start.  Only a few houses from ours, I
spotted a lone bright red ladybug resting on a leaf.  We collected the
sample and continued on our way, Rodney chatting up neighbors as we
passed.  "HI," he yelled.  "I FOUND A BUG.  THIS IS DADA AND THIS IS
BABY MILES."  He was met with confused waves and amused smiles.

Me made our way to the end of the street, where there is a creek that
passes under Milwaukee street.  Kneeling beside the tall reeds, we
nearly captured two different grasshoppers, but they leapt away to
freedom.

We also found a beautiful daddy long leg spider.  I began to collect
it into the bag, but seeing a hundred baby spiders gathered underneath
it, I paused.

"Look dude," I said.  "This daddy long leg is a _mommy_.  It's got
babies."

"Awwww, cute little _normal_ spiders," said Rodney.

"Wait, _normal_ spider?" I asked.

"Yeah," nodded Rodney.  "A normal spider."

_Normal_ spider.  As opposed to _Miles Spider_ and _Peter Parker
Spider_ from Rodney's favorite Spider-Man movie.  "Oh I get it," I
chuckled.  "Let's leave this normal spider alone, since she has babies
to take care of."  Just before turning around to head home, we scooped
up a plain old Box Elder bug.  Those are easy to catch.  In our
backyard, they're practically falling out of the trees.

When we arrived home, Marissa was plating up dinner - a giant potato
and egg pancake that filled the circumference of our largest pan.

"You should have seen what I had to do to flip it," she giggled.  "I
used our big party platter, and I had to slam it on the table.  The
dogs were really scared."

At the table, while cutting into a giant and delicious potato pancake,
we regaled Marissa with stories of our bug hunt by the creek.  "And we
saw a _normal_ Spider," said Rodney out of turn.  "With little tiny
_normal_ spiders."

After putting Rodney to bed, we caught up on chores, then watched some
more of the Dark Knight.  Climbing into bed, Marissa and I talked
about our "covid fight" from earlier.

"Sorry about that again," I said.  "I could have been way more
empathetic about that, instead of just attacking your sources."

"It's OK," said Marissa.  "My anxiety has been really bad about it.  I
think I need to stop reading things anyway.  How have you been
feeling."

"Great actually," I replied.  "I'm at this really weird place where I
don't even remember all the things we're missing out on.  Like what is
it even like to order food at a restaurant, get on a plane, or walk
around in the mall?  Shake someone's hand?"

"Or just sit at a Chipotle." said Marissa.

"And since I don't remember these things, when this is over, it's like
we'll be experiencing it for the first time.  I feel like the list of
things that will give me an overwhelming sense of wonder keeps growing
the longer we stay in quarantine."

I hope that thought encourages you.  There will come a time where
we'll be able to come out of our houses again and resume regularly
scheduled life, and all the little things we used to take for granted
will be so new and exciting.  Keep hope, and have a wonderful
Wednesday, everyone.
