---
title: sharpening knives, powernaps, and science experiments
banner: 2020-09-16.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

It's knife sharpening day.  About once a month, I take out my
whetstone from the little corner of my kitchen counter and plunk it in
a loaf pan filled with water.  For some reason unknown to me, the
square block bubbles under the surface of the liquid.  After a minute
or so, the bubbles stop, and that's my cue to remove the stone and
begin with the first knife.  I place the stone on a wet rag to keep it
from slipping.

There are two sides marked with different color gradients.  One is
"1000", the other is "300", and without fail I need to google the
difference every time I do this monthly chore.  The numbers are the
grit, and 1000 is just about right for home use.  I think I would only
need the "300" side if I was repairing an old sword or something.
Good to know.

Holding the blade carefully with the pads of my fingers, I sweep each
knife across the top of the whetstone.  It's tricky keeping the right
angle and covering the whole length of the blade - hilt to tip.

It makes a pretty cool sound.  The loud metallic scraping sounds like
it belongs in the beginning montage of an 80s action movie.
_Meanwhile, our hero remains stranded in remote Cambodia, and you
could say he has an "axe to grind"._

Once I've done each side of the blade, I give it a few careful runs
with the honing rod.  I've done this part so often that I can feel
when it's finished.  There's a moment when the blade is "honed" that
the honing rod loses grip, and the knife slides more freely.

When I've finished a knife, I lay it in the sink until I've sharpened
the others.  Than out of fear of getting microscopic metal shavings in
my food, I give them all a thorough clean with soap and a sponge.

They say the way you can test if a knife is completely sharpened is if
it can cut a piece of paper.  Personally, I find this test
frustrating, and it makes me feel inadequate - especially after all
that work.  I like the finger nail test.  If a knife is sharp enough -
sharp enough for my standards - you should be able to shave off your
finger nail as if you were whittling a piece of wood.

I pat the knives dry with a towel before hanging them up again.
Sometimes I rub some mineral oil on my favorite paring knife, which
gets special treatment.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/knives.jpg">
    <img alt="knives" src="/images/knives.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

_Sip_.  Good morning, everyone.  How is your Wednesday going?  We've
had a quiet week here.  I'm pleased with how much I'm getting done at
work.  This week I've found a good balance between opening and closing
my various social channels.  Lately, I prefer solitary mornings.  I
close slack and email, and riding the caffeine rush of a whole pot of
coffee, I write code until lunch time.  Chatting with Marissa and
Rodney at the table over lunch gently shakes me into a different head
space, where I feel a little more friendly and outgoing.  In the
afternoons, I catch up on what the rest of the team is doing, I read
company news, and I help out with reviewing code.

And there's no better way to end the work day than with a power nap.
While Marissa was starting to prepare dinner, I climbed onto the couch
yesterday for a half hour snooze.  I awoke to the smell of ground
beef, and to the sound of Rodney thumping things around his room.

"I'll get him out of quiet time," I called into the kitchen.

Rodney and I do science class before dinner on Tuesdays.  "Are you
excited to do some science?" I asked, while changing him.

"What are we doing today?" he asked.

"Something with baking soda and vinegar," I chuckled.  "I haven't
worked out the details yet."

Last week's lesson about dissolving things in liquid I found had just
a little too much theory and not enough demonstration.  Which is why
this week, my plan was to just focus on the pyrotechnics.

"Hey Momma, do you know where the balloons are?" I asked.

"Oh Rodney knows," laughed Marissa.  "That's his favorite thing to get
out of the basement.

Surprised, I turned to Rodney.  "Can you help me find the balloons,
dude?"

"Sure!  This way," said Rodney, taking careful steps down the basement
stairs.  Rodney led me between stack boxes, over folded cardboard, and
between paintings.

"Dada," he said turning around in his tracks.  "Don't touch the
paintings."  He held his finger up and locked eyes to make sure I was
taking it as seriously as he.

"Don't touch the paintings - got it," I repeated obediently.

Rodney guided me into the back corner of the basement, first expertly
navigating around some stored agility equipment.  "Just step, then do
a HOP," said Rodney, guiding me like a little basement clutter sherpa.

"The balloons are up there," he pointed.  "Can I have _two_ this
time?"

Without answering, I reached into the bin and grabbed the whole bag.
Rodney began to convulse with excitement.  We made our way outside for
our science experiment.

"What's this stuff," I asked pouring out some baking soda into
tupperware on the deck.

"That's DIRTY SAUCE," he exclaimed.

"Very funny," I said rolling my eyes.

"It's sugar," said Rodney more seriously.

"Close - it's baking soda.  Check this out, dude," I said.  I added a
splash of vinegar and swirled.  It made foam bubbles that reached the
top of the container, met from Rodney some very literal _ooh_'s and
_aah_'s.

"That's _gas_," I narrated.  "Do you know how we can prove it?  Watch
this dude."  Together we scooped some baking soda into a balloon, and
stretched it over a plastic watter bottle loaded with more vinegar.
We made our way out to the yard.  I shook the bottle and threw it,
expecting an explosion.  The balloon swelled up, but didn't pop.

"WOAHHHHH," said Rodney.  "LET'S GOOO."

"Check it out dude, feel it.  Is it hot or cold?"

Rodney wandered over to the balloon and scooped it off the floor.
"It's cold," he said, surprised.  "So chilly."

Baking soda and vinegar is an endothermic reaction, meaning it
consumes energy from the rest of the system, making the solution and
the balloon cool to the touch.  I had forgotten about part.

For the remainder of "science class", we filled up some more balloons.
Rodney chased them around the yard with a baseball bat.  Very academic
stuff, right?

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
