---
title: the bears, rodneyisms, and kanye
banner: 2020-10-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  If you cheer for the Bears and you happened
to catch the last night's ludicrous display against the Rams, I offer
you solidarity and condolences.

That was a rough one, wasn't it?  Penalties everywhere.  Starting
almost every drive behind the ten yard line.  No chemistry on defense
or offense.  The scene on Bears twitter right now is staunchly in the
_fire everyone_ stage of depression.  Personally, I dealt with the
disappointment by slugging a light beer while stress cleaning my
kitchen, and then I turned to my dark master, the fun sized
Butterfinger.

Normally, I wouldn't consider myself a sweet tooth.  I have to be
going through something really unnaturally painful before I turn to
Halloween candy.  Yesterday's football game would do it though, and
this morning the stench of an embarrassing, gut wrenching loss is
accompanied by a dull sugary stomach ache and a low grade headache.

There are a lot of bad things to say about last night's game, but we
have some good things to focus on as well.  For instance, our house is
very clean now.  Marissa and I stress cleaned almost everything in our
house through the entire second half.  Dishes.  Garbage.  The play
corner.  Everything perfectly in its place, and likewise a symbol of
futility.  It turns out that no matter how hard you clean your house,
you can't clean up what's happening on the field of a bad game.

Another narrow benefit of last night's game: this week I'll probably
avoid all NFL news, highlights, videos, and commentary, and with that
distraction steamrolled away from my thoughts, just think of all the
things that I'll get done.

Finally, to close out this subject, let it be known that I hate the
Rams.  I hate them, as well as their big dumb indoor LA stadium, and
how it's named after one of the most obnoxious student loan brokerage
companies to exist, and how it looks like a big ugly medical device
right in the middle of the depressing sprawl of Hollywood.

_Sip_.  I had a crazy day yesterday.  Now that it's known at work, I
think I can divulge that most of the craziness is due to switching
teams.  After this week, I'm getting moved to a new team with a new
manager, and for the time being it feels like I'm temporarily on two
teams with two managers.  Two sets of meetings, two sets of goals, and
even two different interns.

"So kind of a weird week for me," I wrote my intern over slack.  "I'm
actually in the middle of transitioning over to your team.  We're
_both_ going to be the new guys."

Personally, a big shake-up in my day-to-day life, but I'm hopeful that
things will level out and once again feel even keel.  I've found the
best way to survive at a big company like ours is to learn to go with
the flow.  I'm a coral gently swaying in the ocean current, much like
the coral in our fish tank.

Speaking of which, our coral has a name now.  It happened a few days
ago over dinner.

"I like it when Rodney names things," I said.  "He has a good track
record.  Both _Flashla_ and _Hauncy_ are so unique, and they're fun to
say."

"What do you think we should name our coral, Rod?" asked Marissa.

Rodney, happy to set down his fork and indulge the distraction,
relished in the spotlight.  He took a moment to search his thoughts.

"Oh!  It's name is... _champion_," He said.

"Champion!" I repeated.  "Another winner."

And so our coral's name is _champion_.

Teaching him letters every day, Marissa is lucky enough to hear even
more excellent Rodney-isms fresh from the source.

"We were practicing flash cards, where he had to say the thing and
what letter it started with," said Marissa.  "We got to N and there
was a picture of a nest.  Rodney said really loud, _N!  N is
for... egg pile._"

"_Egg pile_," I repeated, doubling over with laughter.  Just imagine
for a second if in your world, the first thing that came to mind when
you saw a nest was _egg pile_.  Imagine if we really called them _egg
piles_.

As I worked upstairs, the phrase _egg pile_ would pop into my thoughts
and I'd start to chuckle by myself.

In other news, I finally got around to listening to Kanye's interview
on Joe Rogan's podcast.  Well, scratch that.  I've listened to _some_
of it.  Per Joe Rogan's laid back podcasting M.O., the entire
interview is over three hours, and I'm not even halfway through.

Here's my take.  It's a great resource if you'd like to understand how
Kanye thinks, so long as you can get past his fixation with running
for President.  With today's scene, that's a big annoyance to
overcome, and part of understanding Kanye is understanding that he's
only comfortable when he's mired in controversy.  "I want _all_ the
smoke, because that's just opportunity" he tells Joe, paraphrasing his
own lyrics.

Kanye's obsession with serving as President as of late feels a lot
like his early obsession with Christianity.  It was sudden, abrupt,
and painfully clear that he hadn't fleshed out all the details with
himself, and he leaves you questioning if this is just performance
art, or if it's just a proxy for some other internal struggle
happening inside him.

I'll say this though, though Kanye doesn't sound like a politician, he
is starting to sound like a real Christian, and it's weird relating to
him on that level.  As long as he was steering away from his misplaced
interest in politics, he was surprisingly relateable.  He talked about
how he didn't know how to rap as a Christian.  He had to reinvent
himself, and for an artist that consistently reinvents himself for
just about every new project, I'm sure that's what drew him to a
personal revival in the first place.

"You have some preachers who read from the Bible, then put down the
book for forty-five minutes," he says.  "I like expository sermons.
There's enough sauce in my life - with all this sauce, I don't need
sauce on the Word."

That's what I got today.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.
