---
title: stinky cheese, the debate, and being sick of my birthday
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  After an enjoyable,
debaucherous whirlwind of a birthday Tuesday, it feels good to be back
on the rails, right where I'm supposed to be this morning.  Though we
have a little more sun in the sky today, it remains perfect hoodie
weather.

Miles, behind me in his chair, is reading his favorite book.  I don't
even know if this book has a name, but there are about five crinkly
foam pages in his favorite book, and between each page turn, Miles
gets so excited he puts the book on his face and _coo_'s.

And the coffee is fresh and delicious today, though it took a few
tries to get there.  This morning, I hit the brew button before
realizing yesterday's coffee was still in the carafe.  Moving on to my
other morning chores, I was stopped in my tracks by the sound of wet
dripping.  The coffee ran down the sides of the carafe, under the
coffee bar, down the back wall.  I nearly went through a whole roll of
paper towels just wiping everything down before I had to start again.

So apparently, it only takes me a day to forget how to brew coffee.  I
also spilled flour on the counter while feeding _KRANG_.  I'm going to
have to work at getting the hang of this whole morning routine thing.

_Sip_.  How's your day going?  What did you get up to yesterday?  I
seem to have already covered most of what happened yesterday, so the
only stretch of time that I haven't accounted for yet is just
yesterday evening.  Continuing my birthday privileges, Marissa
shouldered my Tuesday evening chores and put Rodney and Miles to bed.
And that was a good thing.  I sat at the dining room table, focusing
all my attention on the Camembert cheese.

I'm still kind of a novice student of cheese.  I know what I like, but
I have plenty to learn.  To be honest, after watching the Camembert
cheese soften and change shape in the back of my fridge all week, I
was hoping it would be a little stinkier.  It came out more like a
really mild brie.  Don't get me wrong - there's nothing wrong with a
mild brie, but in my head I hyped it up like it was going to be a
really _challenging_ cheese.  I wanted to bite into something utterly
repugnant - something that tasted like death in your mouth for at
least a full 30 seconds before rewarding you with a nice after taste.

Are there any cheese fans out there?  If you know of a cheese like
that, please let me know.  I need a cheese meant for a dairy
masochist.  A cheese adrenaline junkie.

After Marissa finished putting Rodney to bed, we watched a few of the
highlights from last night's presidential debate.  I use the word
"highlights" generously, because from what we saw, it was a shit show.
A fascist circus.  An episode of identity politics reality TV.

But don't worry about us.  We appropriately set our expectations as
low as possible, and because of that our evening was saved.

"I'm so glad we didn't sit down to watch the whole thing from
beginning to end," said Marissa.  "I just can't find anything that was
worth listening to."

"Yeah, I was already in the mindset of like, 'this is just
_entertainment_'," I said.  "I get that it's pretty much just cable
news playing on people's need to see someone get _owned_ or
embarrassed.  But last night wasn't even good entertainment, let alone
remotely political."

And I don't know about you, but I'm starting suspect that win, lose,
or draw, Trump isn't leaving.  I don't think it will be the epic early
January stand-off in the White house some are expecting either.  It
will be a petty, drawn out argument about the legitimacy and rules of
mail in voting.  I think he'll just take advantage of how tired we are
and shrug his way back into office.

I don't mean to paint such a gloomy picture.  Man, maybe the debate
still bummed me out.  Heading into this entry, I was proud that I kept
the whole mess psychologically at an arm's distance, but writing has a
way of showing you what you're _really_ feeling, doesn't it?

Once we had our fill of the debates, Marissa and I crashed on the
couch to watch some football highlights.  And despite having lots of
delicious alcohol, birthday junk food, and free license to keep the
party going, I just stuck to water.

"You're not going to drink at all?" asked Marissa.

"Nah," I said, waving my hand.  "I've been drinking and eating all
day.  I'm just going to sit here.  I need to get back on the rails."

"It's starting, isn't it?" said Marissa, smirking.

"What is?" I asked, interested.

"You can only take like... twelve hours of a special day," she said.
"You get tired of things like your birthday really quickly."

I started to laugh, my glass of water resting on my chest bouncing up
and down.  "That's not true," I chuckled.

"_Yuh huh_," said Marissa.  "Remember on Christmas?  Before we went
bowling you said -"

Marissa adjusted in her seat to drive her point home.  "You said
'Christmas is a _weird_ day.'"

We both doubled over from laughing.  "You're right," I said with tears
in my eyes.  "Now that you mention it, I _am_ kind of sick of my
birthday.  I just want to have a normal day tomorrow."

A joke, but a true one.  After taking a day to celebrate, it feels
good to be back on the rails, enjoying an utterly normal Wednesday.
I'll work, make dinner, clean up, and wind up on the couch with a
beer, just as I'm accustomed to.

And thanks again for all the birthday wishes, everyone.  Yesterday, I
felt loved from all corners of social media, texts, and email.
Friends, family, and readers, you all are the best.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Jeremy Flinkman reminds you to never
forget to date your spouse.  Have a wonderful day today.
