---
title: instruments, code, saltimbocca, and our garage
banner: 2020-08-09.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. Hope your Sunday is going well, and that
you're not moving too quickly.

This morning, Rodney was so distracted by the electric piano set aside
in the play room that he almost didn't finish his crappy bar.  "What's
that, dada?" He persisted.

"Me and momma got that up here from the basement last night," I
replied.  "We're going to make you try some piano this fall since you
couldn't get into pre-school."

Without taking his eyes off the piano, Rodney took a swig of apple
juice.  "Dada," he said, needlessly flagging me down with his hand in
front of my face.  "I don't want to play piano.  I want to play
_violin_."

"You want to play the _violin_?" I asked, surprised.

"Yeah!"  Rodney put his hands to his mouth and bobbed his head, like
he was playing an imaginary flute, his fingers fluttering over
imaginary woodwind holes.

"I don't think that's a violin, dude," I luaghed.  "That looks like a
sax.  Or maybe a clarinet."

"It's a violin!" Rodney cheered.  I decided not to die on this hill
just yet.  The important thing is that he knows what a piano is - we
can cover the other instruments later.

After Rodney finished his breakfast, he took a seat on the couch to
watch some YouTube.  I should have been working on my journal entry or
cleaning up from last night's dinner, but instead I was lulled into
hacking on my static site generator.  I've recently hit the critical
point in any side project where it is imminently abandoned or
finished.  If you had talked to me earlier this week, I would have
predicted the former.  I was feeling lukewarm about the value of the
project, like I was just writing a much crummier version of [jekyll].
But sometime between my head hitting the pillow last night and my head
leaving the pillow this morning, I received an epiphany for a much
simpler design, and after cranking away on it this morning, I'm
pleased to report it's a smashing success.  The tool I'm working on
generates my website a full six seconds faster than the old framework.

My new framework (I've just been referring to it as "a sprawling mess
of ruby" or ASMOR) just hit a thousand lines of code.  I have to
finish up the RSS feed generator, copy all my old code for counting
words and making graphs, and I'll be ready for the big cutover.

"I think it's worth making because it doesn't try to be so modern," I
said, rambling about it to Marissa last night.  "I like websites that
are kind of retro, and web pages that feel like real documents.  I
want to give people a sense that they're just clicking around on my
computer."

[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com/

OK non-nerds, it's safe to come out now.  I'm all done talking about
code.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  While Marissa hacked away at
the mess in the back basement corner, I took Rodney to Woodman's for a
grocery pickup, then got to preparing dinner.  Feeling compelled to
use up some random packages of proscuitto that were accidentally added
to my haul on the last Hy-Vee pickup, I decided to dust off an old
Chef John recipe I tried about a year ago.

The dish is called _saltimbocca_, which in Italian means "leaps in the
mouth", referring to the hopefully exciting flavor of the dish (as
long as it's prepared well).  Working off of memory, I pounded some
chicken breasts flat, seasoned them, then between two long sheets of
plastic warp I gently tamped a thin layer of proscuitto onto each
filet.  From there, the filets are seared in a pan with hot oil, left
with plenty of time for that proscuitto to form brown crust and get
all delicious and crispy.

From there, I made an apple juice & apple cider vinegar pan sauce and
served the whole mess on some garlic mashed potatoes beside a cabbage
and tomato salad.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/saltimbocca.jpg">
    <img alt="saltimbocca" src="/images/saltimbocca.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>"Saltimbocca", or "meat stuck to fancier meat"</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed, finally joining Marissa's basement
cleaning crusade that had been taking place all day.  By the time I
was ready to assist, she had a neat stack of cardboard, paint cans,
and wood slats ready for _schlepping_.  Making trips up and down the
stairs, I piled everything in front of our garage door.  Before
wrapping up work, Marissa and I made our way outside to put everything
away.

With Marissa standing nearby with a flashlight, I heaved open the old
wooden garage door, revealing the inside.  The faint red glow from the
Burger King sign refracted by wavy, murky glass.  Moths and other
flying bugs scattered from the flashlight beam.  The rafters casted
long, eerie shadows along the old scratched up roof.

Our garage is a true to form, unsightly Midwestern garage.  The quips
from [Charlie's newest YouTube video] come to mind: spider eggs, wasp
nests, rusty nails, and, as Charlie puts it, "enough scrap wood up in
the rafters to build at least two more garages".

Marissa stood beside me while I wrestled with an arm full of long
wooden slats.  I grunted, trying to hoist the pile all at once into
the rafters.  Some of the slats slid out of my grip, and I flinched as
they missed my face by inches.  The wood fell to the floor with an
awful clatter.

"Here, how about you stand on this chair and I'll hand them to you,"
said Marissa.

"That's a better idea," I said tiredly.  "Good problem solving."

With all the garbage and scrap wood put away, I snapped the door shut.
Our muggy, scary, spider ridden garage was once again swallowed up in
darkness.  Heading inside, we took a victory lap around our newly
cleaned corner of the basement, then grabbed a pair of well-deserved
beers out of the fridge.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.

[Charlie's newest YouTube video]: https://youtu.be/RiOr5Z7KQpw
