---
title: the worst hose, too much garlic, and the roller coaster
banner: 2020-08-12.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  This morning felt a little
unnatural and chaotic, beginning with me accidentally falling asleep
for an extra hour.  After sleepily jabbing at my phone for a few
minutes, Marissa politely solicited some tech support.

"I got a weird email from _mailer daemon_," she said, tossing her
phone onto the bed.  "It says the original email was sent by an
address I don't recognize?"

After resetting Marissa's password, I returned a moment later with a
cup of coffee.

"Sorry to wake you up with IT needs," she said.

"It's OK," I laughed, imbibing the first sip of coffee.  "I think
somebody was trying to spoof your email and it got caught by gmail.
Nothing to be worried about.  And it wouldn't have taken so long to
figure out your password if I'd have gotten my lazy ass out of bed
when I was supposed to."

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  In the morning, Marissa headed
outside to tackle a project that involved replacing our old messed up
garden hose.  Rodney and I accompanied her, filling the time between
fetching tools for her with sports and super hero role play in the
front yard.

"This is just the worst hose ever," said Marissa, slinging the heap
of disheveled rubber coil onto the ground.  "Did you know this was the
hose that came with our house?"

It's a remarkably terrible hose.  Two old, small hoses fused together
with a bulky plastic valve that somehow freely rotates on both ends
while also being eternally rusted together.  Three pin sized leaks
spray water in all directions.  The nozzle of the hose is also
terrible in its own right.  It's impossible to completely shut off.
Even when the lever is free, there is a steady trickle of water.

"I thought we'd be able to salvage some of this, but it's not coming
apart anywhere," said Marissa, vice grip in hand.  "Can we just chuck
it?"

"Don't have to say that twice," I said.  And with great pleasure,
Rodney and I heaved the entire ass-brained convoluted system into our
garbage can.

After some time to wind down, we took a family trip to pick up
groceries.  Coming home from Woodman's and unpacking the groceries, it
became clear that I made a few clerical errors.

"Oh my gosh," gasped Marissa.  "Why did you get so much garlic?"

"Well, I got twice the amount that I normally order because..."  My
voice trailed off, seeing the heavy plastic bag filled with garlic
heads.  "Oh," I laughed.  "That is a lot."

I took out my phone to find the receipt in my email.  "Yep - my bad.
I got an entire pound, but it was only two dollars."

We also went a little overboard on jalapenos and habanero peppers.  It
appears I'm still getting the hang of shopping at Woodman's.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/too-much-garlic.jpg">
    <img alt="too much garlic" src="/images/too-much-garlic.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>All
stocked up for when the vampires come.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

For dinner, Marissa made us a chicken breast and a Tex-mex salad with
a side of Mexican corn.  And for dessert, we had brownies and
ice cream.

"I'll clean up.  Why don't you take Rodney downstairs so you guys can
start on the roller coaster," said Marissa after we had finished
eating.

Earlier that day, me and Rodney's k'nex roller coaster arrived in the
mail.  A single tattered box with nearly 1000 individual pieces.

Rodney joined me on the floor in the corner of Marissa's basement
studio.  "So we're just going to be organizing the pieces dude," I
said.  "That will help us build it more quickly, and plus this thing
is from ebay, so it might be missing pieces."

Rodney surprised me.  I didn't think he would find any fulfillment in
the tedium of separating hundreds of rods and connectors into color
coded bags, but he picked up on things quickly.

"Dada, you get the blue ones," he said, handing me a bag.  "I'll get
all the white circles."  We played music and cracked jokes - we had so
much fun organizing the build site that I lost track of time, and
accidentally gave him an extra half hour past his bedtime.

"I was surprised," I said to Marissa after putting him to bed.  "When
we built the crane he had no interest in putting it together."

"Maybe it wasn't what he was expecting," said Marissa.  "He was
probably expecting a fully assembled crane to be inside the box.  I
think he now understands that building it is the fun part."

"And he's very particular," I added.  "We put all the bags back in the
box, and one by one I watched him take the bags out, roll them up, and
put them back."

Marissa nodded.  "He does that to my art stuff too.  When he hangs out
down here, he likes to organize the felt in our craft supplies."

"And did you know that just now I caught him rinsing off his
toothpaste?" I said.  "He was rinsing the cap under water,
meticulously scraping the caked pieces off the outside.  And then he
said _nice and clean_."

"He's _your_ son.  I think he likes it when things are tidy."

After Rodney was in bed, I finished organizing the pieces, then took
some time to skim through the included manual.  Back when I first put
this kit together when I was little, I would have never taken the time
to actually read any of it, but last night I was struck with how
detailed and thoughtful it was.

"Look at this," I said to Marissa.  "There is a troubleshooting guide
if your roller coaster doesn't work."  I read aloud from the manual.

"If you have any trouble or further questions, call us at
1-800-KNEX-KIDS to talk to one of our _construction specialists_."

"Awww, that's sweet," said Marissa.

"Helping a random kid troubleshoot their giant k'nex roller coaster
over the phone," I said.  "Can you imagine what that job was like?"

Thanks for stopping by today.  If you'll excuse me, I was due at the
job site a half hour ago.  We have a roller coaster to build.
