---
title: christmas lights, cheap seats, and the sunday scaries
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're having a good Sunday. This morning,
time seems to be getting away from me. The plan was to wake up early and
enjoy some coffee before church, but all of the sudden it was 9:30, and
Rodney was awake. Before I knew it, the 11 AM service was bearing down
on us, and it became sort of a rushed situation.

At least Rodney is having a pretty low key morning. He was pretty upset
that I made him put on a button down shirt, but we find that he usually
comes around to any outfit as long as he has time to wind down and sit
by himself. This morning, he's sitting on the living room couch watching
Bill & Ted with a bowl of Cheerios. Last I checked him, he was in good
spirits.

Even if we sometimes have trouble getting out the door for church,
Sundays are great. After church, we're going to go out as a family for
pizza at Ian's, then we're hanging out around the house, finishing up
projects while we watch the end of the Saints & Vikings game.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. After a long, hearty breakfast, I
spent the rest of the morning outside with Rodney collecting the
Christmas lights. As I teased the Christmas lights off our porch awning,
bushes, and front yard tree, I did my best to keep things organized, but
you can only do so much with Christmas lights. Especially the dangling
"icicle" style lights. Those things are going to look like hell, no
matter how you wrap them. Yesterday, I tried to at least bunch them up
in their own large ziploc bag. But it felt good to get the lights done.
And having everything packed up by January 4th is pretty respectable as
a timetable I think.

After packing away the lights, I spent some time playing hockey with
Rodney in the driveway. Rodney's getting pretty good with a hockey
stick. He officially shoots lefty. At some point he even figured out how
to hold his stick correctly, and his shot it looking pretty decent these
days.

We went inside to escape the cold and eat some lunch. Marissa was
working on the living room windows, and she too took a break to eat some
leftover pizza with us. I straightened up the kitchen while Rodney
finished up, then we all took a nap. Marissa and I drifted off to sleep
on the couch, letting *Cheap Seats* play on shuffle.

I rediscovered the show *Cheap Seats* last night. While we were eating
lunch, a picture of me, Marissa, and the Sklar Brothers appeared on our
desktop computer slide show. Over lunch, we reflected on how fun of a
comedy show that was. "Those guys are pros," I said while chewing. "And
I can't believe they spent like five minutes talking to us in the middle
of state street. They were super cool." "And they talked to us after the
show too, and remembered us," Marissa added.

Reflecting on that comedy show put me in a Sklar mood. *Cheap Seats* was
a TV show they used to do on ESPN classic, where they would watch old
sporting events and add their own snarky commentary, *Mystery Science
Theater* style. I still have every episode of the show saved on my Plex
server, and it's great to nap to.

The house started to slowly wake up in the early evening. I got Rodney
up, we put the dogs away, and we all jumped in the car to go bowling.
Rodney brought his stuffed giraffe, and insisted I carry him zipped up
in my coat. We bowled one game, taking a long break for pizza, then
several more breaks to deal with our broken bowling lane. The first time
Marissa walked up to the counter to tell them our lane was stuck, the
guy gave her some attitude. But after the fifth time, he was much more
apologetic, and by the end of the game he had hooked us up with some
free bowling coupons.

In last night's game, I bowled a 109. Rodney bowled something in the low
nineties, and Marissa held down last place with something in the mid
forties. Keep in mind that Rodney is using the bumpers and the metal
bowling ball ramp.

After putting Rodney to bed, I spent most of the night under the blanket
on the couch. My back has still been a little iffy all weekend, and I
was convinced that I needed just one more solid period of inactivity, so
I grabbed Ziggy and crashed on the couch. We kept the Cheap Seats
marathon rolling, watching more episodes on shuffle into the night while
Marissa kept painting the windows.

I was grateful I got to take it easy most of the day yesterday. For me,
next work week is one of those weeks that makes me scared to look at my
calendar. Last time I checked, I had four code screens and a meeting on
top of what my usual week looks like. The Sunday scaries are mounting.
But before we get carried away thinking about how stressful the work
week is going to be, there's still plenty of Sunday left. We haven't
even left for church yet. We have pizza, football, and home projects as
a distraction, not to mention more coffee to drink. There's plenty of
things to do before I even start thinking about Monday.

The coffee is starting to kick in, and now I'm feeling pretty good. In a
few minutes, I'll jump in the shower, and I might even have time to brew
an extra batch of tequila infused coffee to drink in church. That stuff
is really starting to grow on me. I'll have to check out that place's
website later to see what else they got.

So that's what I got today. Hope you all have a wonderful, relaxing
Sunday. If you have a scary work week coming up, I'd recommend taking
some generous couch time and watching old episodes Cheap Seats.

