---
title: 1-on-1's, midwestern phone conversations, and mr. poop
banner: 2020-08-27.jpg
---

Just look at this waste of space.  Arms out.  Mouth cracked open.  He
probably spit out that perfectly good pacifier the second Marissa
looked the other direction.  He'll lay like this for another hour
before resuming his busy day of demanding everything and contributing
nothing.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-27/passed-out.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 27 passed out" src="/images/2020-08-27/passed-out.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I kid, of course.  Miles seems to have turned a corner this week.
He's cut out most of the midday crying, and he even seems to be
spitting up a lot less.  For a baby that must have spectacularly
flunked out of baby school, he's finally getting the hang of things
just learning on the job.  Keep up the good work, Miles.

_Sip_.  Happy Thursday, everyone.  It's been a crazy week.  I've
severely underestimated how difficult it would be ramping back up to
regular working hours.  My day feels squeezed, like I even have to
fight for time to catch up on chores, let alone free time.  But I'm
hanging in there.  My top priority this weekend will be scoring at
least one solid afternoon nap.

I had a much more social day yesterday.  Per my manager's
recommendation, I've set up 1-on-1 meetings with everyone on my team
to catch up on things and absorb some different perspectives of what I
missed.  From my perspective, it was like bearing witness to a strange
virtual work place human zoo, jumping from one webcam to the next.
The people I work with have changed in the last three months.
Everyone looks a lot more comfortable at home.

"I only do work in this room," explained Fong, glancing at the walls
of her home office.  "Otherwise I'll work too much."

"That's good, I like that," I replied.  "You have to keep those
partitions up, even in a virtual office."  I employ a strategy similar
to Fong's at home.  I write my morning journal entry from the dining
room computer.  Even though I'm remotely controlling my upstairs
computer, it helps to be in a place other than where I work.

During a 1-on-1 with Rob, he invited me out to lunch - a virtual lunch
over Zoom, of course.  "You know - where we just stare at each other
over Zoom while we eat our leftovers," said Rob.

"Perfect," I laughed.  "And do we spent the first ten minutes of the
call explaining to each other what we're eating?"  Rob nodded.

In between the Zoom calls, I made my way downstairs to make lunch.  We
had a flight of grilled cheese sandwiches, and playing some leftover
bingo with the last bit of greek yogurt and a bottle of honey, I threw
together a parfait.  I offered some to Marissa, but she turned it
away, grimacing.

"Creamy yogurt, honey, with speckles of... are those sunflower seeds?"
she asked.

"I should have known," I laughed.  "It's like a food texture gag
reflex nightmare for you, isn't it?"  I shrugged and finished the
parfait on my own.

Rodney, famished from swimming in his pool all morning, gobbled up the
rest of his grilled cheese and retreated to his room for a nap.  With
his little pool still warm from the hot water, I sat out there with my
feet under the surface while I caught up on work slack.

I finished out the work day, passing by Marissa in the kitchen as I
was getting ready to pick up some groceries from Woodman's.

"Rodney is exhausted," said Marissa.  "I would just let him sleep."

Back at home, I put away the groceries and got to work on dinner.  I
made beef stew with seared chuck roast, onion, and toasted Hungarian
paprika and caraway seeds.  It wasn't a slam dunk, but good enough to
shake myself out of the home cooking slump I've seen.  Between the
rubbery orange dumplings on Sunday and the roasted chicken debacle on
Monday, I was just happy to finally make something that was edible.

As I set the table, Marissa entered the kitchen from the back yard.
She was setting up a sprinkler for the grass.  Just before she sat
down, she noticed the water from the sprinkler flying over our fence
into the neighbor's yard.

"Would you mind if I called Beverly real quick?" she asked.  Marissa
picked up her phone and dialed.  I plated the beef stew on buttered
noodles while taking in what was probably the most quaint, midwestern
phone conversation I've ever heard.

"Beverly, how are ya," began Marissa cheerily.  "Hey, I put a
sprinkler in our backyard and - yep, oh ya know, still trying to get
that dang grass seed going.  Hey, some of the water is hitting your
yard, is that gonna be a problem?"

From the other line, I could hear Beverly voice her neighborly
approval.

"Just making sure that you weren't getting soaked over der', and you
didn't mind the free waterin'," continued Marissa.  "Oh yah, our
garden didn't do so well this summer, so dry, ya know?  Talk to ya
later."

After dinner, Rodney and I headed into the basement for some Super
Mario time.  Rodney sat on my shoulders while I played the same three
levels on repeat, each time making it a little further in Lemmy's
castle.

"Dude, this Lemmy guy is kicking our butt," I griped.

Finally, it was Rodney's bedtime.  I ushered him upstairs to get ready
for bed.

"Dada, we read a story now?" asked Rodney.

"I have something special planned, dude," I said.  "I'm going to tell
you a story."

Rodney's face looked worried as he searched for words.  "Dada, I don't
like stories," he said.  "They make me feel... kinda _inter-sting_."

"I'll try not to make it scary this time," I said.  "Here, I won't
even dim the lights."  With caution, Rodney allowed me to proceed.

Earlier that day during his nap time, Marissa and I had a hushed
discussion about his potty training progress.  "The practice poops are
helping a bit, but I just don't think he's motivated to learn," said
Marissa.

"Have you heard his new line of BS, where he says..."

"_Maybe Friday_" we said in unison.

"Today I told him 'We _really want_ you to poop in the potty,'" said
Marissa.  "Not too much pressure, but _some_."

"And what else did you say," I asked, cracking a smile.

"Then I told him 'POOP IS GROSS!  YOU ARE BAD IF IT TOUCHES YOU!'"
said Marissa.

"I DON'T WANT TO SEE THE POOP EVER AGAIN!  PUT IT BACK!  PUT IT BACK!"
I chanted.  Sometimes it's therapeutic to take a mental break from
being a responsible parent and imagine the _worst_ possible way you
could deal with a parenting challenge.  Just for fun.

So my idea was to weaponize that night's bedtime story to plant a seed
of persuasion, and maybe explore what was stopping Rodney from doing
the deed.

"Once there was a boy named Rodney.  He was playing outside in his
pool," I began.

The first leg of the story wasn't exactly great literature.  Just a
nice, over-the-top comfortable scenario to earn Rodney's trust.  In
his defense, up until that point I had only told him scary stories.

I talked about how Rodney was hanging out with the ninja turtles in
the back yard.  How they thought he was the coolest dude and wanted to
hang out with him in his rad backyard pool _on the reg_.  Rodney was
beaming.  Time for the drama.

"Rodney woke up from his nap to a small voice.  'Hi Rodney!  Can you
hear me?'" I squeaked.  Rodney was intrigued.

"Was it green dino?  Was it corgi?  Was it baby dinosaur?"  I cycled
through every stuffed animal he had.  "The sound was coming from his
tummy.  'My name is Mr. Poop'", I squeaked.

If this were an intervention, this would probably be the point where
Rodney would have angrily sprung from his seat and began to protest.
But he instead began to meekly argue with Mr. Poop.

"I really want to go in the potty," I squeaked, committed to the
painfully pitched up Mr. Poop voice.

"Maybe Friday," said Rodney.  "Pooping makes me scared."

"It's OK to be scared," said Mr. Poop.  "But you have to be _brave_.
Brave is when you do good things, even though they scare you."

Rodney stared over my shoulder through his window, pondering
Mr. Poop's words.  We said his prayers.  Just before the final stanza,
Rodney interjected.

"And help Rodney... not to be scared," he said.

"To be brave," I added.

Thanks for stopping by today.  To good things, even if they scare you.
