---
title: skin markers, anger paintings, poached trout, and walks
banner: 2020-06-02.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope you'll join me today in trying to
forget whatever carnage is happening in our city and in our country to
enjoy this beautiful summer Tuesday.  The afternoons get a little
muggy, but the mornings are nice enough to enjoy a cup of coffee while
watering the grass.  These days while we're outside for even the
briefest moment, I have to keep a close eye on Rodney.  He likes to
bury his head in the sand of his sandbox - completely immersed,
ostrich style.  Even at the risk of throwing out a potentially
powerful metaphor for how I'm dealing with things right now, sandbox
baths are off limits.

At the moment, I'm also dealing with a pretty strange hand injury.  On
Sunday night, while trying to start our stubborn weed wacker, I
whacked my hand on the side of the hard plastic surface.  Part out of
frustration, and part just trying to conjure our engine to life, I
immediately felt a shooting pain in my wrist.  Since then, I've been
sporting a little greenish bruise, and having some strange numbness in
my thumb.

"I don't even think I can get through push-ups," I said wincing in
pain just before ending the work day.

"Oh no!" said Marissa with animated sarcasm.  "Well, you're just going
to have to skip exercising and drink wine on the porch with me."

_Sip_.  Yesterday morning, Rodney and I went to the grocery story, and
even though it was only his second time back, our Hy-Vee routine feels
thoroughly restored.  Rodney helps keep track of the list, chats
people up in line, and begs me for extra snacks.  Yesterday he talked
me into buying a very specific type of _crappy bars_, and it wasn't
until I got home that I realized they were smores flavored.

After getting home, Rodney helped me unload the groceries into the
kitchen, then helped himself to his chocolate egg while he played
games on the computer.  Marissa passed through the kitchen , stopping
to check out what we brought back in our grocery haul.  She smiled,
seeing Rodney engrossed in the Nick Junior website.

"Does he actually know how to play games?" she asked.

"Not really," I laughed.  "He can sort of move the mouse, but just
well enough to watch the _toons_ - I think he's literally just
watching full episodes of Paw Patrol right now.  Sometimes I have to
come help when he accidentally resizes the window or something."

And there was one time where Rodney accidentally changed the web
address to `nickelodeon.co.uk`, which loaded a completely British copy
of the nickelodean website.  Thinking nothing was wrong, Rodney
watched a solid hour of _queen's english_ Paw Patrol that day.

After finishing some lunch on the deck, Marissa and I chatted about
the riots.

"I feel like I'm having a delayed reaction to everything," I said.  "I
was OK about it at first, but now I feel like I'm in a bad mood, and
all I want to do is read about it on my phone."

"Same," said Marissa.  "Miles didn't sleep well last night, and I feel
like I'm too tired and sad about the riots to paint.  I feel bitter
and trapped, like I can't even express myself right now."

Fittingly, Miles was fussy yesterday, spending most of the afternoon
rhythmically, viciously crying in his crib.  And we all dealt with it
in our own ways.  Rodney hung out in his room, and used his sleepless
quiet time to make an elaborate pattern on his skin with colored
markers.  His self-made crayola tribal tattoo spanned his legs,
stomach, arms, and face.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/warpaint.jpg">
    <img alt="warpaint" src="/images/warpaint.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Ceremonial toddler warpaint</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Marissa spent the afternoon in her art studio.  "I made an anger
painting," she said.  "I tried to paint with my anger and get some of
it out on the canvas, and it felt good."  She made a medium sized
black ensemble with streaks of glittering gold.  Elegant and beautiful
as always, even motivated by anger.

I hid out in the kitchen most of the afternoon.  I didn't intend for
dinner to be so elaborate, but it felt good to just hide away,
listening to music and trimming vegetables.  For dinner, I made sticky
rice bowls with sliced vegetables, topped with figs, chickpeas, and
some trout poached in _bouillon_.  The bowls were drizzled with a soy
sauce honey glaze, and I even topped them with an edible flower and a
pared slice of lemon.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/fancy-meal.jpg">
    <img alt="fancy meal" src="/images/fancy-meal.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Poached trout rice bowls: figs, lemon, chickpeas, and an edible flower</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The second after we prayed for our dinner, I stuffed the entire purple
flower in my mouth and stared at Rodney.  He squirmed in his seat with
laughter, then dug through his pile of rice to find his flower so he
could do the same.  After I was done eating, I went inside to collect
a screaming Miles from his crib.  I let him fall asleep on my lap out
on the porch while Rodney picked at his dinner.  We all uncomfortably
swatted may flies.

"So it's been kind of a bummer of a day," said Marissa.  "Do you think
we could go for a walk?"

"I think that's a great idea," I replied.  "A nice walk might salvage
this."

Marissa and I took slow steps down the sidewalk behind the stroller,
flanked by both dogs.  Rodney was in full _running guy_ mode, runnning
far ahead of us with his foam sword stuffed in the waist band of his
shorts.  It turns out that the reason _running guy_ hasn't showed up
in a while is because the new flip-flops we bought for him have a
flimsy strap that falls off of Rodney's heels.  "My sandals are cool,
but these shoes make me go FAST," explained Rodney before taking off
down the sidewalk, pumping his arms.

As we walked, Marissa and I brought each other up to speed with what
we knew about the riots.  Madison is doing much better - last night,
there were some isolated opportunistic acts of vandalism, but the
larger protest remained peaceful, and there was no need for riot gear.

"The worst part about these riots is it's not like we're even that
special," I said while we strolled.  "Everyone is dealing with their
own riots too.  It feels kind of lonely."

I'm looking forward to a new day.  In a few moments, I'll get Rodney
out of bed, and I'll try to put aside my worries and concerns and get
excited about something productive instead.  I think I might leave my
phone upstairs for the morning - it's that kind of day.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day
today.
