---
title: looking back on my old phones
banner: 2020-11-07.jpg
---

## Before Cell Phones

The early nineties was a fun time to grow up.  It was the perfect time
to experience changing technology.  The drawbacks of early nineties
tech were my parents problem - the expensive unwieldy computers, dial
up internet, VCRs, cassettes, and fax machines.  But as a kid, all the
outdated technology was my playground.  I got to spend just enough
time with early nineties tech to develop my own appreciation and
nostalgia just before all these relics were chucked to the curb.

I'm proud to have grown up using a handset telephone for most of my
childhood.  I remember the world before cell phones where I committed
my best friends' home phone numbers to memory, and for every thing
else I had to rely on my mom's handwritten phone book - even for the
number to the pizza place across the street.

There was an etiquette to answering the phone, and as a kid, answering
the phone for your parents was a fun, small way to contribute to the
family.  You were not allowed to just flat out ask _Who is this?_.
Instead the phrase _May I ask who is calling?_ landed a little more
politely.  Although our family was never one of those "Jones
Residence, this is Alex speaking" houses, that just came off as too
stuffy for us.

We had an answering machine too.  At one point we had an answering
machine that took real tapes, but later in life we switched to a newer
digital one.  Coached by my dad, my little sister Sarah recorded the
answering machine greeting when she was probably seven, and we kept it
that way.

## The Motorola Nextel

By the time I was in high school, my family went all in on a set of
Motorola Nextel cell phones.  The most distinguishing feature of the
Nextel phone was the rubber.  Black rubber lined the outside, the
inside, the bezel around the screen, and even the buttons.  We joked
that you could drop a Nextel phone from a skyscraper, and after
bouncing on the pavement and putting someone in the hospital, the
phone would be absolutely fine.

I think we even tested the indestructible lore of the Nextel using my
sister's device, skidding it down the driveway in the hot summer sun.
Sure enough, she picked it up off the pavement, and there wasn't even
a scratch to be seen.

One of the coolest parts of the Nextel at the time was the push to
talk feature.  If we were within range of each other, I could reach
anyone in my family over a built-in walkie talkie.  Using little
rubber buttons on the side, I could navigate my address book of
contacts and send a quick update all without opening the phone or
getting off my bike.

One weekend while staying at my friend's house, I had my phone out on
their kitchen table while we were eating breakfast.  My friend's dad
was a paramedic, and as it turned out, the paramedics in our suburb
all carried Nextel phones as well.

"They gave us this special code that lets us use more towers so the
walkie talkie works from pretty much anywhere," he explained.  "Why
don't you do it to his phone too, Johnny."

Johnny grinned, and after punching in a cryptic set of numbers into
the keypad, my phone chirped.  From that day on, I had a special
emergency services glyph in the top corner of the little LCD screen,
and as promised, I had reception pretty much everywhere I went.

My family almost exclusively used the free walkie talkie feature to
communicate, but there was a grave oversight.  Everything said over
walkie talkie was instantaneous and barked through a loud speaker
phone without warning.  My mom send me to the nearby Target on my bike
to pick up some things for her.  Walking through the middle of a busy
Target, suddenly my phone chirped.

"Hey Alex, get another back of boxers, I found another pair with a
hole in them."

Blushing, I fumbled my phone out of the holster and mashed the mute
button, trying to save face in the middle of the store crowded with
weekend shoppers.

I still maintain that the Motorola Nextel was the perfect phone.  In
fact, the only reason why we had to upgrade was because they were
discontinued.

## The Motorola Razr

My second phone was the coveted Motorola Razr.  I first caught a
glimpse of its sleek and alluring form factor during a super bowl
commercial.  Razr mania caught fire, and soon everyone at school was
sporting the thin, shiny, dagger like cell phone.

I felt lucky to get my own.  I felt like a secret agent taking it out
of the box.  But after spending about a month with the new phone, it
became clear that beyond the fancy thing form factor, the Motorola
Razr was nothing short of an electronic turd.  The battery would run
out before the end of the day, even just idling in my locker.  The
buttons were cheap and sticky.  The software was sluggish, and my
phone would sometimes crash and reboot for no reason.

I reluctantly adapted.  Without the walkie talkie feature I had grown
to love, I had to learn how to text.  Before T9, each letter had to be
punched in one at a time - the 1 key three times to make a _C_, a one
second pause, a single press to make an _A_, etc.

One thing that the Razr did have going for it was the wallpapers.  You
could set the menu screen to a low resolution sunset, and ocean view,
or a rain forest.  One night while lying in bed, I navigated to a menu
option to download extra wallpapers and unwittingly clicked through an
agreement to add an expensive up-charge to our phone bill.  My dad
confronted me about it a week later, informing me that the Family Guy
wallpaper I downloaded costed us an extra thirty dollars that month.

I also liked the camera.  Being able to take photos on demand was an
unforeseen perk of my lukewarm Razr lifestyle.  I mostly used the
camera to make my own calming menu wallpaper collection, snapping
pictures of rainy car windshields, empty parking lots, and fourth of
July fireworks.

## The Old Person Phone

By the time I was ready to upgrade from my Razr, the iPhone had
swallowed up the whole market.  I didn't want to commit to a
smartphone just yet, so I went to the Sprint store to pick up a new
flip phone.

Something was very different this time around.  Sprint had also gone
all in on the iPhone, but in the far back dimly lit corner of the
store was just a flip phone for sale.  The buttons were humongous, and
the dial tones were needlessly loud.  There were no customizations or
options.  The manual that came with my new phone featured some old
people sitting on a park bench, and all of the sudden I realized that
I had bought a phone meant for Sprint's elderly customers.

My old person phone held out until I finally upgraded to an iPhone 4S.
Using an iPhone for the first time was magic, but also in a way
tragic.  Holding in my hand for the first time, I had the feeling that
life was going to get a lot easier, but also a lot less quaint and
charming.  These days, I use my phone so often, it's like a reflex.  I
put it away, then take it out of my pocket seconds later out of habit.
I unlock my screen and flip through my apps just to kill time.  It's
easy to forget that my phone used to just be a phone, and I used to
say things like "May I ask who is calling?" and "It was too much to
text, so I just decided to call you."
