---
title: bacon, scalable recipes, and the wasp nest
banner: 2020-08-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  I hope this lovely Saturday is treating you
well.  Here on my end, we had all kinds of ambitious outside work
planned this morning, but the gloomy skies and constant on-and-off
drizzling thwarted us.

"You mean to tell me that we _can't_ work outside, and instead we have
to just sit around and drink coffee?" I said, laying on the sarcasm
thick.

"What can we do?" shrugged Marissa.  "We're BLOCKED!"

And that's the story of how I ended up at my bedroom computer, still
sporting my pajamas, staring down at my empty mug silently wondering
if I've written enough to earn another refill.

It's been a leisure filled morning, but not one without a good
breakfast.  Rolling out of bed this morning, I was quick to open up
the single pack of bacon in our fridge and lie the strips on a cold
pan while I washed some dishes and brewed a pot of coffee.  The smell
of bacon wafting through the air sent Rodney into a frenzy.

"You make bacon, dada?" said Rodney, watching me sleepily climb the
stairs through his cracked bedroom door.  I smoothly entered his room,
sat down at the foot of his bed, and held out a piece of bacon for
him.

"_Wil je een stukje?_" I asked.  Rodney quickly snatched the sliver of
meat out of my hand and took a seat next to me.

It's hard to describe how much joy I get watching my son eat bacon.
Rodney has always been a modest eater.  "You eat like a _bird_!" is
something he hears often at the table.  You could imagine my relief
when I finally found something that he would eat without constant
goading (that wasn't candy).

"Dada, I have more bacon?" asked Rodney.  "And I eat it on the
couch... and you put Zig Zig away?"

Zig Zig was watching and waiting for us from the upstairs hallway.
She licked her chops like a hungry predator.

"Na, we're going to eat at the table today," I replied.  "I'll hold
Zig Zig so she doesn't steal anything."

Rodney made quick work of the rest of his portion.  "Save some for
momma," I said.

Marissa joined us at the table and she too began to devour her share.
Two last slices remained on the plate.

"Did you get some, dada?" asked Marissa.

"Yeah, I snacked on a few.  You guys take it," I replied.

Rodney reached for the last slice and held it gingerly, like it was a
golden ticket.  He ate it one crumb at a time, tucking pieces in his
mouth like candy.  At least he appreciates it.  If any fell into the
clutches of Ziggy, it would be in her stomach before her mouth closed.

"What are we going to do when we have _two_ hungry boys wolfing down
bacon at the table?" I asked.

"You're just going to have to make more, Dada," said Marissa.

"How much more?" I exclaimed.  "They're probably going to eat a pound
each."

Someday feeding two growing boys is something I think about, even if
the problem is still a dozen years away.  I remember how much food I
used to eat in high school, and being on the other side of the kitchen
this time, I'm met with trepidation.

I've been using the word "scalable" to qualify our regular favorite
home recipes.  It's a software word, but it seems appropriate to
describe how well you can grow a system and multiply the results.
Cookware, ingredients, heat, time, space on the stove - all these
things factor into how plausible it will be to keep our favorite
recipes on the menu.

Luckily bacon is safe.  It's easy enough to let the pan cool, wipe it
down, and start another flight as needed.  But for now, I relish in
having a family that is small enough to feed with only a half pound -
a single package.

_Sip_.  How was your Friday?  Rodney, Miles and I hung around at home
in the morning while Marissa and the dogs got some much needed ring
time.  When they returned, the dogs exploded into the living room,
bouncing from one piece of furniture to the next - their tongues
hanging from their mouths.

"They were _so_ happy," said Marissa, returning.  "They ran around the
ring for ten minutes straight - a dead sprint."

We joined Alex and Cassie at the biergarten for a wonderful afternoon
of drinking and chatting, and when we returned home we ordered Tibetan
food.  I put Rodney to bed, then joined Marissa in the studio.

"Want to do the wasp nest tonight?" she asked.

"Yeah we can do that," I said, blinking at the basement TV screen.
"Let me get another beer in me so I can work up the nerve."

This past week, we've witnessed a growing wasp problem in our house.
Not your run of the mill yellow jackets, either.  These wasps are red.
They're the kind of wasps with skinny, alien like waists, dead eyes,
and a commanding evil presence.  We found one in Rodney's room, one in
our bedroom, then another in the bathroom.  We decided we needed to
take action after one flew by Marissa's head while she was working in
the fish tank.

There was a nest high on the wooden ceiling above our front door.
Marissa and I stood outside on the porch, cautiously observing.

"I think it's getting bigger," said Marissa, worried.

"Yeah, I think you're right," I said, sighing.  "It's definitely
active, and bigger than I remember."

"Our poor mailman," said Marissa.

To brush up on our wasp killing knowledge, I queued up a few
do-it-yourself YouTube videos.  I was expecting at least _some
insight_, but to our disappointment and amusement, each video
confirmed our initial suspicion.

"Spray, then run," I chuckled.  "That's pretty much it."

Last night before crashing on the couch, Marissa and I stood outside
on the porch.  She pointed a flashlight up at the nest.  The wasps
were arranged around a single entry hole in the nest, eerily vibrating
while they slept.  Standing at a distance, I unleashed the poison.  A
single wasp fell to the ground and began to crawl away.  I sprayed him
again for good measure.

"Did you see any other stragglers?" I asked.

"Nope," said Marissa.  "I think the rest of them are goners."

"I didn't even have to run," I remarked.  "That was almost too easy."

Sorry, wasps.  You're fascinating, terrifying, and industrious
creatures.  But it was either going to be your family or mine.  And my
species invented _Raid_.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day.
