---
title: my thirtieth birthday
banner: 2020-09-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good _evening_, everyone.  How was your day today?  For those of you
who have grown accustomed to it, I'm sorry didn't have a post out this
morning before your work day started.  I took the day off to celebrate
my thirtieth birthday, and that began sometime last night.  After
catching up on my chores and rewarding myself with a bottle of wine, I
turned off my alarm on the way up to bed.  Like any good birthday
should start, I woke up whenever I damn well felt like it.

After enjoying a cup of coffee upstairs, I followed the smell of bacon
and breakfast into the kitchen.  Marissa had prepared some egg in the
holes, and had mimosas out on the table.

I opened up some gifts.  Marissa got me a Kanye West sweater, a new
synology box, and a Bears oven mit.  "That one is from Rodney," she
clarified.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/30th-synology.jpg">
    <img alt="30th synology" src="/images/30th-synology.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>It might
be tough to explain what this is.  All you need to know is that it
makes nerds like me happy.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"So these are the _mittens_ Rodney was telling me about?" I asked.
Rodney nodded.  A few days ago, Rodney caught some flack for _almost_
disclosing what the present was.  He did his best, but the best I got
out of him were "they're MITTENS - black, with a little bit of orange,
and a little bit of white too."  I was picturing some winter mittens,
like the kind you would get for a child with a string keeping them
attached.

Additionally, I'm pretty excited about this sweater.  It's a limited
edition piece from Kanye's surprise _Jesus Is King_ launch.

"I got it on Ebay," she said.  "I didn't want to get scammed, so I was
really caution.  I made the guy upload like a dozen pictures.  Is it
too small?"

I took a fashionable turn in the kitchen on my own runway.  "I really
like it," I said.  "It's a little short, but to be honest, it reminds
me of how all my clothes used to fit me in the nineties, before the
whole grunge thing kind of took over."

More importantly, this sweater feels like it was designed for working
on the computer.  Sitting here at the keyboard typing, it's hard to
describe how or why this thing is so comfortable.  It captures that
magical, immaterial quality of what it felt like to wear that favorite
random old zip up that had been in your closet for as long as you
could remember.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/30th-sweater.jpg">
    <img alt="30th sweater" src="/images/30th-sweater.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Just
wanted you wall to know I will be wearing this exact outfit for the
duration of this freakin pandemic.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Embarrassing as it is, the day started to get a little fuzzy after
breakfast.  We bumped some tunes in the kitchen while we decorated a
cake.  Marissa and I each had two drinks in our hands - a mimosa and a
fresh cup of coffee.

"It's a weird sensation, isn't it?" laughed Marissa.  "It's like with
every sip I'm getting more energy and less energy at the same time."

Rodney helped Marissa assemble the halves of my birthday _mistake
cake_ in the kitchen.  As Rodney was cleaning off the frosting spoon,
a little drop of food coloring fell on my cutting board.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/30th-frosting.jpg">
    <img alt="30th frosting" src="/images/30th-frosting.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Rodney
engaged in the satisfying, dangerous art of tasting frosting.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"Oh no," sighed Marissa.  "Rod, try to be more careful."  She reached
for the dish rag and started to scour it.

"Oh don't worry about it," I said.  "Seriously don't even try to clean
it.  I stain it with tomatoes all the time."

"Really?" said Marissa.  "This is food coloring though, it might be
hard to get out."

"So I have a blue dot on my cutting board.  Don't sweat it," I assured
her.

"Yeah, _don't sweat it_," repeated Rodney.

"Are sprinkles ok?" asked Marissa.

"Of course," I said.  "Let me check the _spice rack_.  I still keep
them on the spice rack, by the way."

Marissa, having already made a perfect looking Bears logo on top of
the cake with icing, was feeling invested in its perfection.  Trying
to figure out how to apply the sprinkles, she hesitated.

"I could just like... pour them..." she said, tipping the container.
The sprinkles fell to the plate.  She picked up a few, throwing them
on the side, like a garnish.

"HIGH YAH.  HIGH YAH," she said, tossing sprinkles around like a
hibachi chef.

Marissa ordered Portillo's for lunch.  I ate an Italian beef with
cheese sauce and fries.  The last time I polished off a plate of
Portillo's that quickly, it was probably in high school after a hockey
game.  And after a slice of cake?  I didn't have a chance.  I
sauntered up to our bedroom for a crushing nap that took up most of
the day.

I just woke up a few hours ago.  We ordered Chinese food for dinner.
Funny story about that home run in pizza from yesterday - I
accidentally ordered the miniature size.  The pizza could fit in the
palm of my hand, and it was safe to say that wasn't going to feed us
this evening.

Today was the best day ever.  Credit to Marissa for setting up a
pretty relaxed and loving birthday.  I was barely concerned about
quarantine.  She ran interference for Rodney and Miles.  All day long,
she curated a day that truly felt like I could do whatever the hell I
wanted to do - surfing the web with Rodney, writing code, drinking
coffee outside, and napping.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/30th-marissa.jpg">
    <img alt="30th marissa" src="/images/30th-marissa.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Marissa,
the birthday mastermind.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

And now that things are winding down, I'll spend the rest of the night
reflecting.  Most people I've talked to or messaged from my phone have
asked me something along the lines of _what do you think about turning
thirty?_ or _what's the best thing that's happened so far?_  Marissa
and I brushed the subject last night standing out on the porch.

"Do you feel different?" she asked.

"Honestly, yeah," I said.  "But I feel like I turned 30 a few months
ago.  I think I'm going to like it."

I took a thoughtful swig of beer.  "I feel more centered and
self-aware.  I feel more capable.  All in all, I like my life.  It's
equal parts regimented, spontaneous, curious, and fulfilling."

We moved inside.  I grabbed Miles from her lap and burped him over my
shoulder.  "What's the best thing that happened to you this year?" she
asked.

"This year?  _Pshhhh_ this year sucked," I sighed.  "Trump.  Covid.
Riots.  Just forget everything this year."

Marissa stared at me, trying to hide the fact that she was horrified.
She glanced at Miles, who was almost knowingly started to chuckle.

"Oh that's right!" I laughed.  "Everything, except you, Miles.  I
suppose that was pretty good."

In a few moments, Marissa and I are going to sit outside the fire and
enjoy the rest of this Camembert cheese.  It was a good day today.
Thanks for all the birthday wishes, everyone.  I'll see you tomorrow,
when I officially begin my thirties.
