---
title: groceries, the oven, and recorder music
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope this beautiful Saturday morning finds
you well.  This morning, I'm moving slowly, chipping away at the dirty
dishes at the sink and leaving plenty of time for coffee.  That's the
way Saturday mornings should be done.  Rodney, on the other and, is
eager to get started.  As I was climbing the stairs to deliver Marissa
her first cup of coffee, his face was pressed in the door, casting
yearning, expecting eyes in my direction.

"Back in your room, dude.  Not time to come out yet," I said, met with
a childish sigh from Rodney before he disappeared back into his dark
room.  Perhaps if Rodney were a coffee drinker, he wouldn't be so
eager to get going.

_Sip_.  Pretty much all of yesterday morning felt like it was on hold,
waiting for the oven repair guy.  Don't you hate those long
appointment windows?  Yesterday, I feel like Sears had my focus
suspended indefinitely, and even though I bounced around from tidying
up around the house, entertaining Rodney, and soothing a fussy Miles,
I felt like I couldn't summon the focus to do anything meaningful.

The hours ticked by, and morning rolled into the afternoon.  Rodney
and I attended story time with his cousins from my upstairs office,
and reading a good Dr. Seuss book helped take my mind of the maddening
state of readiness I had been in all day.

Marissa returned from Home Depot.  She had bought some planters for
our herb garden, and on the way, picked up Jimmy John's for us.
Rodney and I hungrily gathered at the table.

"Look at this," chuckled Marissa.  "Look what they did to Rodney's
sandwich."  Marissa presented two slices of absolutely bare bread.

"You're kidding me," I guffawed.  "They just straight up forgot to
make his sandwich!"  I sighed, rolling out of my chair to my feet,
lazily finishing Rodney's sandwich with a swipe of peanut butter and
jelly in the kitchen.

"I take it the oven guy isn't here yet," said Marissa.

"That's affirmative," I said, chewing a mouthful of BLT like a cow.
"I have a feeling this guy is going to show up at the very end of the
appointment window."

"I'll take a turn waiting for him," said Marissa.

"Thank you - that makes me happy," I said sincerely.  "You are better
at dealing with those dudes than I am.  I think all repairmen can just
look at me and _know_ that I have no idea what I'm talking about.
It's like they can smell it on me."

With Marissa home to take a shift waiting for the oven repair guy,
Rodney and I slapped together a hasty grocery list.

"OK, so if the oven _is_ fixed, we'll make a sfinicione," I said,
balancing a squirming Rodney on my lap at the computer.  While
muttering aloud, I typed out a bullet point list.  "... and if the
oven is _not_ working..."

My voice trailed off as I got lost in thought, trying to imagine what
was in our pantry without getting up from the chair.  "I don't know -
just bacon and potatoes or something I guess."

Rodney and I swiftly filed up and down the aisles at Hy-Vee, filling
our cart with vegetables, meat, bread crumbs, milk, and wine.  We
queued up at a register.

"Do you have your ID on you?" asked the store manager, scanning my
wine.  My face turned flush.

"I don't have it on me," I replied.  The store manager narrowed his
eyes, then smiled.

"I'll let it go today - that kid of yours looks pretty old," he
laughed.  Rodney nodded at him.

"Thank you - I hate being this guy, I'll have it on me next time," I
said, pulling the cart away.

"Thank you grocery store!" called out Rodney as we left.

Back at home, Marissa greeted us in the kitchen.  Her wry smile told
me she had good news, but she had a worried look in her eyes that made
me thing there was some bad news as well.

"Please tell me the oven is fixed," I said, hoisting a haul of plastic
grocery bags over our fence to unlock the gate.

"You better come inside," said Marissa.  "Here - turn the oven on."

With my eyes, I scanned around the kitchen.  There was a fire
extinguisher on the counter, but nothing else looked out of place.  I
hesitantly hit the _on_ button.  _Click-POOF_.

"I fixed the oven!" said Marissa, fist pumping.  "I installed the new
igniter myself.  I googled it!  It turns out any idiot with a
screwdriver can do it!  But just in case I screwed something up, I had
the fire extinguisher here.  OH and Miles was sleeping in his chair
right there while I was working on it."

"OH my gosh," I said, celebrating.  "You're amazing!  Wait - so the
guy didn't show up?"

"No, and it's a weird story," said Marissa.  "Remember we ordered
another burner cap from Whirlpool?  Somehow Sears knew about that, and
they wrongly assumed that the parts of the job hadn't arrived yet.  So
without telling us, they rescheduled the appointment another three
weeks from now."

I recoiled in disgust.  "GOD!" I shouted.  "They're just... terrible!"

"Terrible," nodded Marissa.  "Use it for a week, and if there are no
problems, I'll cancel the appointment."

"That call needs to be a conference call.  I want to hear you tell the
guy to just did it yourself," I laughed.  "What a victory.  Here's to
the YouTube generation, right?"

I baked a sfincione.  And perhaps I was just imagining things or
projecting positive feelings, but our oven smelled better -
_cleaner_.  As we waited for the pizza, Marissa and I enjoyed a glass
of wine on the porch.  Through the baby monitor, we could hear Rodney
incessantly bleating his tiny wooden recorder.

"Miles is probably so mad," laughed Marissa.

"Does this count as cruel and unusual punishment?" I added.  "Hey
Rodney," I said, holding the _talk_ button on the baby monitor.
"Momma wants to hear you play some tunes - get out here with your
recorder."

Together, Rodney and I serenaded and annoyed Marissa until the pizza
was ready.

It's nice to have my oven back - and it's back in full force.  I have
two loaves of bread proofing, and also some eggs warming up for a
Dutch Baby.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful Saturday.  Go
bake something in your oven.
