---
title: naps, pizza parties, and football
---

Dear Journal,

Just take a look at this mess.

{% include figure.html filename='2020-09-13/roller-coaster.jpg' %}

The mighty K'nex roller coaster lying on the carpet in a crumpled
heap.  Twisted, broken tracks.  Chaotic spooling orange cable.  How
did this happen?

"It was like slow motion," recounts Marissa.  "Rodney and I were
playing _beach_ with a balloon, and he lost his balance.

"Was he hurt?" I asked, concerned.

"No not hurt," she replied.  "He didn't really fall, as much as he
just lost balance and caught himself with the roller coaster.  He was
more sad than hurt."

"Awww, poor guy," I sighed.

Marissa stood beside me inspecting the mess.  "I told him we could fix
it.  And I would actually be down for that - let's open a bottle of
wine this weekend after he goes to bed and figure it out."

This morning, the roller coaster remains in shambles.  Last night, we
only got to the "bottle of wine" component of our plan.  We always
have tonight.

_Sip_.  Good morning, everyone.  It's good to be here on this
overcast, drizzly Sunday.  How has your weekend been?  We've been
laying low around the house, biding our time with some relaxed indoor
activities between naps and meals.

The cold, rainy weather has pretty much thwarted all of our plans,
beginning with Friday's weekly trip to the biergarten.

"Radar is not looking good," wrote Cassie over a hangouts message.

"I guess we'll just have to all take naps instead," replied Marissa.
"See you guys next week."

Not to make napping in the rain sound like a big letdown, either.  A
rainy day nap is a formidable backup plan, if you ask me.  Especially
because we still haven't turned our heat on, and the temperature in
our house continues to drift downward into the critical cozy zone.
Double blankets.  Hoodies and sweaters.  I've even busted out the
first pair of socks I've worn since quarantine began.

It seems like Rodney doesn't share our appreciation for naps.  He was
still pretty bummed that the our biergarten date was called off.  So
Marissa had an idea to set up our own biergarten style picnic in the
living room.  We laid out some blankets and pillows on the ground, got
a round of drinks, and ordered pizza.

{% include figure.html filename='2020-09-13/pizza-party.jpg'
caption='Indoor living room pizza party.' %}

"Dada, we watch _dudes_?" asked Rodney.  _Dudes_, of course, being his
name for the movie _Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure_.

"No dude," I replied.  "It's Momma's pick today."

"And we're watching _Despicable Me_," Marissa added.  "I think he's
finally old enough to appreciate it," she whispered to me.

Rodney did not enjoy it.  Amazingly, he remained completely unaffected
even by the scenes with the minions.  I would have thought that their
silly sounds, props, and antics would have had him rolling in
laughter.

"I think this movie is done, can we be done now?" pleaded Rodney.  We
were in the climax of _Despicable Me_, and the heart warming ending
even had me misty eyed.

We had a great Saturday too.  Marissa and I found a better way to
divvy the time up between writing and watching the kids.  Instead of
jumping right into writing in the morning, I first hung around the
house with Rodney and cooked a big brunch for us.

"I liked making food before writing," I shared later that day.  "It
felt like I earned the writing time first, instead of just borrowing
it from you."

"It worked out well for me too," said Marissa.  "I like waking up to a
big breakfast."

If I'm being honest, most of my writing time on Saturday is spent just
looking at old pictures.  While scrolling through our endless photo
stream in search of a topic, I too easily get pulled into just looking
at old pictures and videos for nostalgia sake.

I find it interesting that Rodney has a hard time recognizing Marissa
and I even from a few years ago.  "Whose that?" I questioned him
pointing at and old picture of us on vacation in the Ozarks on the
screen.

"I dunno," smiled Rodney.

"Dude - that's _us_.  That's momma and dadda," I laughed.

Rodney can't even recognize himself sometimes.  He misidentified his
own baby pictures as his brother Miles.  But maybe that's forgivable.
If we're talking just baby pictures, they're practically photocopies
of each other.

For dinner last night, I whipped together one of our fast favorites,
bistro style chicken.  The most shocking thing about the recipe is how
many onions go into making the sauce.

"This was three onions," I snickered, as we dug into dinner.  "That's
literally an onion per person."

The onions are pre cooked in butter, then finished cooking under some
chicken thighs and deglazed with some vinegar.  "The recipe works with
chicken, pork cutlets, and even frog legs if you want," Stephane
explains in the recipe video.

{% include figure.html filename='2020-09-13/chicken.jpg'
caption='French Bistro style chicken' %}

This morning, I've got football on my mind.  Today at noon, the
Chicago Bears play the Detroit Lions for their season opener.  Usually
on Sundays, we sleep in and watch church with lunch.  Today church has
been scheduled until later this afternoon.

To celebrate, I started a batch of Chef John's _RAM_ wings, leaving
them to marinate in the fridge overnight.  But lacking fresh rosemary
and good chili powder, I decided to take the recipe rogue.

"I switched gears and went the curry and tumeric route," I told
Marissa, stirring the bowl.  "Some chopped up garlic also snuck in
there."

Marissa leaned into the bowl for a whiff.  "I'm a fan," she said.  "I
love curry."

"So who are you most excited to see play?" I asked.

"Honestly, Mitch," she said.  "I'd like to see him redeem himself this
season."

"Me too," I replied.  "I'm going to be a positive fan this season and
root for Mitch too.  But we also have our defense, and they're fun to
watch no matter what."

Thanks for stopping by today, everyone.  Hope you use the rest of the
weekend to relax, eat good food, and maybe even watch some football.
Thanks for stopping by today, and go bears.
