---
title: my flowery coffee mug, meetings, and fixing the sink
banner: 2020-10-30.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday!  I'm excited for a long
weekend, and even though I was griping out how dumb daylight savings
time is in principal, you can't complain about it in practice.  Here's
to reaching the end of a long week, and here's to an extra hour of
sleep getting folded somewhere into the rest.

Today I'm drinking coffee out of my new coffee traveler.  Simple white
metal, a handle, and a plastic lid with a sliding piece that goes over
the mouth hole.  The rim is also lined with a flower pattern.

One weekend we were working outside, and I still had some coffee in my
mug to finish.  Marissa offered to lend me her flower mug.  I would
spend the rest of the work session on-and-off raving about how perfect
it was.  Good size.  Nice firm fitting lid.  It magically holds your
coffee to the perfect drinking temperature.

"I couldn't find any that don't have flowers on them," said Marissa at
the computer.  "You don't mind, do you?"

"I don't mind at all," I said.  "It's 2020 - gender stereotypes are
dead.  Find me one that's hot pink and blush red if you can."

Finding a good coffee traveler is exciting, isn't it?  The best ones
are always discovered by accident.  I remember not long ago, Marissa
and I wanted to invest in some good coffee mugs we could take with us
to church on Sundays.  I found this pricey Japanese brand that
everyone was raving about on reddit, so we ordered two of them.  They
had cool metallic colors.  The machinery in the lid was so satisfying,
it made you want to fiddle with it in between sips.  But even at
almost thirty bucks, the damn thing started to leak after only a few
trips in the dishwasher, earning it a new home in the bottom of our
garbage can.

_Sip_.  Have you been hurt before by shiny, promising every day items
that just end up leaking all over the place?  Would you use a mug that
was perfect, all except for a silly flower pattern around the side?
And how was your Thursday?

The true work week feels like it ended sometime on Wednesday.  Working
for the last few days on a team that will be dissolved and absorbed on
Monday, there's only so much you can actually work on.  But yesterday
felt productive, just for all the meetings I had.  All day I floated
between 1-on-1's with my old team and new team.  We also met as a big
group with all the interns that will be joining us this year.

"And then as a get-to-know-you question, we'll ask what is your
favorite fall activity and what is your favorite thing to eat this
time of year," read the manager who was leading the discussion.  "Then
offer a piece of advice for the interns."

"My wife and I have been watching a lot of movies," I said.  "We've
been doing it all quarantine, but I expect to step it up as it gets
colder.  And my favorite thing to eat is soup, specifically leek and
potato."

Glancing at my laptop screen, I saw friendly nods packed in little
zoom room squares.

"And advice..." I said, my voice trailing off.  "I'm going to use a
cliché, but a good one.  Go with the flow.  That's advice for interns,
as well as anyone else trying to resume life in quarantine - me
included."

I also had a nice informal chat with my new manager, Seth.  Being a
photography buff, he uses a high quality mirrorless camera mounted by
his computer as a webcam.

"I feel like I'm in a sixty minutes interview," I laughed.  "The light
and focus is just absolutely perfect."

"I get that a lot," laughed Seth.  "Like literally on every zoom
call."

"It's funny, because I complain about how often people mention my arm
microphone," I replied.  "And I just realized, I'm just as guilty of
it, sure enough your camera was the first thing I mentioned."

After work, I flopped on the couch to watch some YouTube.  Marissa
wandered through the living room.

"I was thinking about finally fixing the drippy sink," she said.
"When were you planning on starting to cook?"

"It's actually perfect timing for you to do that," I groaned, rolling
further under a blanket.  "I'm just making stew, I could probably make
it in fifteen minutes."

An hour later I emerged to get started.  Marissa had the sink taken
apart on the counter.  Beneath her on the floor, Rodney piddled around
with his own play tools.

"I... think I have to go to Home Depot," she said.  "I bought the
wrong size."

"Oh no problem," I said.  "I still got lots of time, go do your
thing."

Preparing for dinner without running water proved to be kind of a fun
challenge.  I carefully shaved a bulb of fennel over the garbage can.
I peeled garlic.  I blended a can of tomatoes with clam juice, setting
the pitcher aside.  By the time I was ready to peel the shrimp,
Marissa slumped back into the house, scattering a pile of new parts on
the counter.

"So, I didn't know what size to get," she said.  "I know this is dumb,
but I just bought a bunch of them."

"That seems reasonable to me," I said.  "You're the expert - you just
do your thing."

Marissa, ripped away the plastic and fastened it to the nozzle.  She
sighed with relief, feeling it click into place.  Moving quickly, she
spun the handle back onto the sink.

"I also just had to by temporary handles," she said.  "I don't know
what size these are."

Tightening the shiny chrome handle, she turned the water on.  A fresh
rush of water poured from the faucet.  She reached for the handle and
squeezed it shut.

"Moment of truth," she muttered.  The water stopped - _really_
stopped.  No more annoying drip.  Marissa fell backwards onto the
floor with her arms raised in the air.

"You're my hero," I said.  "Now pardon me, I'm going to defile the
sink with shrimp guts."

Later that evening, we sent Rodney upstairs to get ready for bed.  We
heard a shriek from the bathroom.

"Momma!" yelled Rodney.  "The water is _LELLOW_."

Marissa cracked a smile.  "Oh, sorry dude.  I shut the water off
today, I'm coming up to fix it."

Marissa showed him how to run the water.  "In an old house like ours,"
she explained.  "When the water sits for too long in the pipes, it
turns a gross color.  But look, dude, all you gotta do is turn it on
and let it run."

"It's CLEAR!" yelled Rodney.

As I put him to bed, I was curious to see how much Rodney had retained
from the lesson in plumbing.

"What did you help Momma with today?" I asked.

"We fixed the _drippies_," He said.  "The sink... was _drippin'_, and
we made it stop."

"That's awesome.  Hey dude, why was the water yellow?" I asked.

Rodney began to wax poetic, filibustering with his own gibberish.  But
somewhere in the munged up mess of sounds, I distinctly heard _water
sits in the pipes_.  I told Marissa afterwards that her lesson had
stuck.

"I heard that too," she said.  "He was helpful today.  He's a good
listener."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Friday, everyone.
