---
title: looking back on starbucks
banner: 2020-09-05.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

It was the Fall of 2006, and I was looking for my first job.  The day
after turning sixteen years old, I jumped in my tiny Saturn Sedan
sporting a crisp pair of khakis and a collared shirt.  A single
printed sheet of paper lay on the seat beside me.  My "resume" boasted
a respectable year long tenure of stocking vending machines at my
church after school.  I even had references.

I left my information with anyone who would talk to me.  Dunkin'
Donuts.  Domino's Pizza.  Taco Bell.  I had a promising interaction
with the surly owner of the family run breakfast diner by our
neighborhood.  But as much as I liked the idea of forging my own way
into a job, I took a glamorous position at Target on the coat tails of
my sister Kelly.

Kelly, who had also held down a job since the day she turned sixteen,
was practically the queen of Target.  After school, she could be seen
in her sharp red polo and neatly tied apron running the humble Pizza
Hut express counter like a well oiled machine.  And even though the
Pizza Hut counter was her usual beat, she was often asked to fill in
on register, and stocking shelves.  She was a well known, well liked
face of the Schaumburg Target.

"So you're Kelly's brother," said the store manager.  Kelly's brother
was promptly hired the following weekend on a recommendation from
Kelly.

As a general Target employee, I was a big stinking failure.  Despite
living next to the store all my life, I didn't know where anything
was.  I could barely count money.  I didn't know how to fold clothes.
For the first month, my frequent changes in responsibility gave me the
feeling that Target was just sort of putting up with me, "Kelly's
brother".

One week they moved me to the tiny Starbucks counter.  I didn't know
how to make anything, but I thrived for the sole reason the dark
corner of the store was mostly unknown and untrafficked.  The idea of
putting a Starbucks in our Target was still kind of an experiment, and
they were still trying to warm people up to the idea with free samples
and lots of advertisements.

The store was kitty corner to Kelly's Pizza Hut express.  We even
shared the same kitchen.  In between actually learning how to make the
drinks on the Starbucks menu, Kelly and I would hang out in our shared
kitchen.  She'd wash my dishes while I covered for her at the pizza
hut counter.  On really slow nights, we would even play cards in the
back room.

As I got more comfortable with my identity as a _barista_, I started
to kick around the idea of changing jobs.  I grew tired of the dark
lonely corner in the back of our Target.  I wanted to work for a
_real_ Starbucks.

After a year at Target, I was hired at the closest Starbucks to my
house - the Streets of Woodfield store.  A far cry from the my lonely
Target corner, the Streets of Woodfield was large, exposed, and
populated.  The giant Starbucks logo could be seen from over the
highway.  The store sat in the middle of the heartbeat of our over
crowded Chicago suburb.  It was a real scene.

The store was quite a culture shock for me.  My coworkers were older.
They had piercings and tattoos.  They cussed, made crass jokes, and
smoked pot in their car on break, but they were also more professional
than me.  They were faster at making drinks than I was.  They knew
more about coffee than I did.  They could sweep, mop, wipe down, and
stock the giant, sprawling cafe in the same amount of time it took me
to find a pack of straws in the back room.  They were courteous and
unshakably patient with even the most difficult of customers.

Painfully, I ramped up to meeting the challenges of being a _real_
barista.  It's a more challenging job than you'd think.  Unlike my
last job, there was no "downtime".  At any hour of the day, there was
always a long queue of people waiting at the register spilling out
into the cafe.

There was one evening where I was placed on the frappucino bar with a
guy we borrowed from the smaller Arlington Heights store.  He was a
grown man who greeted me confidently.  His chiseled jaw, deep voice,
and friendly eyes made me wonder why he wasn't working as a doctor, a
lawyer, or a male model.

The evening rush hit, and the two of us were soon slammed with a slew
of pre teens trying to buy frappucinos before the premier of the new
Harry Potter movie.  I arranged a neat queue of plastic cups,
furiously scribbling the appropriate codes on the cups - "XWC" for
extra whip, "+1" for an extra shot of espresso, "1/2" for half-caf,
and a single question mark for "ask me", meaning _this one is
confusing, just "ask me" to explain it_.

My new friend was like a scared deer in the middle of the highway.
His mocha splattered hands were trembling.  His eyes were glassy and
unfocused.  His face was flushed.  With a dozen frappucinos waiting to
be made, he completely froze up.

"Take over Alex," said the shift manager, escorting him to the back
room to ease his nerves with a glass of ice water.

I hung in there.  I learned the trade, practiced my techniques, and
adapted to the hectic, late night lifestyle.  Over time, my Starbucks
didn't feel like a war zone anymore.  Even when the line was out the
door, it just felt like _work_.

A little known fact - there's two sides to every Starbucks.  Most
people are familiar with the morning crew.  They're chipper, clean
cut, and very professional - even to each other.  They wear nice
clothes, and like to read books and drink tea on their break.  And
since their work day probably began at 4AM, they'll likely be in bed
by 8PM on even a Friday night so they can do it all again in the
morning.

Then there's the evening crew.  Scrappier.  Less friendly.  Disheveled
and wrinkled.  Cigarettes, ear buds, and untucked shirts.  We closed
the store at midnight, and we couldn't go home until everything was
cleaned and packed away, which sometimes wasn't until 2 or 3 in the
morning.  We were more familiar with the true filth of the store.
Each night I scrubbed questionable material off our toilets and
urinals with bleach.  I battled swarms of fruit flies to scrape dried
sugar and caramel off the floor drains.  We dealt with rotting food
and expired milk.  Every Saturday, Tommy and I would hose off the
unspeakable horrors in our garbage room.  And on top of everything, we
still had to act like we had a culinary interest in the Starbucks
menu.

"I'm a _Komodo Dragon_ drinker myself - do you think I would enjoy the
_Sumatra_?"

My snippy internal monologue was my private sanctuary.  _I don't know
sir.  I exclusively drink black espresso over ice to stay awake at
work.  But since both those blends tasted like dirt and rain water, I
think you'll love it._

Ironically, my favorite night to work was on "honey wagon" night.
Once a year, a red truck would park in front of the store, and a
friendly guy in a pair of dickies made his way to our back room to
pump our grease trap empty.  The smell was so bad that customers would
voluntarily clear the dining room.  The smell was so foul, that some
of the baristas would tape Tazo tea bags to their face to mask it.
But a bad smell was a small price to pay for the rarity of not needing
to service a giant line of customers.

One "honey wagon night", I was washing dishes while they guy was at
work on our grease trapped.  Fascinated, I watched him pop the metal
lid and snake the thick pipe into the hole, slipping beneath the
glossy sludge.

"So that's all just food grease?" I shouted over the motor.

"OH YEAH," he yelled.  "And this isn't even that bad.  You should see
what they're dealin' with over at that that burger joint.  WOAH
NELLY!"

The motor lurched to a stop.  "AH we got a CLOG!" he shouted at the
same volume, rolling up his sleeve.  He reached his arm down into the
hole.

"Hey, if you see a watch down there, lemme know," I said, smirking.
The man turned sharply, and after a moment broke out into wild
maniacal laughter.

"OH I'LL GET YOU YOUR WATCH," he cackled.  "WHAT IS IT A ROLEX?  HA HA
HA HA WHAT IS YOUR ROLEX DOING DOWN THERE BUDDY."  It was clear from
his reaction that he didn't get to chat with a lot of people on the
job.

But when it comes to working evenings at Starbucks, the amount of free
food you had access to was unmatched.  Each night as part of our
duties, we'd have to rotate all the expired food out of the pastry
case and fridge.  Once the items were tallied up, they were off
unsellable.  But Starbucks management never gave us a convincing
reason why we weren't supposed to eat it and take it home, and for
that reason, we treated it like it was ours.

Trays of soft blueberry muffins.  Towering stacks of chocolate chip
cookies.  Sandwiches, wraps, and appetizers.  For a ravenous sleep
deprived college kid, the Starbucks closing shift was paradise.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/feast.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks feast" src="/images/starbucks/feast.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Bacon wrapped dates and artichoke flat bread: a typical late
night snack while closing.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After my closing shift on Sunday nights, I'd leave right from work and
make the long, quiet drive back to college.  Before climbing into bed
at 4 in the morning, I'd leave a plastic garbage bag full of day old
Starbucks treats in our dorm room lobby.  By the time I'd wake up for
early morning lab, the bag of treats would be picked clean.  Some
referred to me as the late night Starbucks _Santa Clause_.

There was one year where Starbucks was launching their new lime ice
refreshers.  "It's a unroasted coffee extract," went the sales pitch.
"All the same caffeine, but pairs better with fruit.  It's a
refreshing and energizing summer drink."

The drink was made from a concentrate - a thick viscous green liquid
we'd pour from little plastic bottles.  It looked like anti freeze, or
something out of a science fiction novel, but as you could imagine the
concentrated version of the icy summer drink packed a wild caffeine
punch.

One night, I returned to college with a trunk full of expired lime
refresher concentrate.  The drink wasn't as popular as predicted, and
as a result we had a whole shelf of concentrate expire.  Heading into
finals week, it was perfect timing, and I had no trouble finding tired
college students in search of something stronger than coffee.  The
expired concentrate made its rounds around campus.  Students would
help themselves to _the green stuff_ right out of the trunk of my car.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/green.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks green" src="/images/starbucks/green.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The green stuff, AKA "mean green"</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Over the years, I reported to many different evening shift managers.
Some pressed us to clean the store as quickly as possible so we could
go home.  Others were going to be up late anyway and were in no hurry.
Most of them had a high tolerance for screwing around on the job.

There was one night where Rachel sculpted my likeness into a munged
pile of expired blueberry muffins and apple turnovers.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/portrait.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks portrait" src="/images/starbucks/portrait.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Perfection, isn't it?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Here's me sporting a temporary tattoo on my forehead.  Most customers
laughed, but one tough looking biker I served that night just smiled
and said _hey, that's a bitchin' tattoo, brother_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/tattoo.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks tattoo" src="/images/starbucks/tattoo.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Sometimes I'd have to throw away big boxes of unused chocolate syrup.
I don't know if I can adequately explain why, but it's tough throwing
out a giant bucket of chocolate without first dunking your arm into
it.  It was a childish impulse.  We called these _mocha parties_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/mocha-party.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks mocha party" src="/images/starbucks/mocha-party.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/mocha-party-2.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks mocha party 2" src="/images/starbucks/mocha-party-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Some weeks in the summer, I'd work fifty hour weeks, twelve hour
shifts.  I saw my coworkers a lot.  We were bored and overworked.  In
searching for things to quench the mundane moments, we sometimes got a
little weird.  In some of my pictures, I can't even remember what we
were doing.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/hiding.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks hiding" src="/images/starbucks/hiding.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Hide and seek?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/yoga.png">
    <img alt="starbucks yoga" src="/images/starbucks/yoga.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I think we were inventing a new kind of yoga.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I grew close to many customers too.  There was Vicki, probably one of
the sweetest ladies I've ever met, who would ask her venti skinny
vanilla latte be made at legally the hottest temperature we were
allowed to serve a bar drink.  The second her cup hit the table, she
would take a big gulp to test it was hot enough.  If it wasn't hot
enough, she would scowl and shake her head, handing the cup back to
me.  "Sorry, honey.  Remake this, it needs to be hotter."

There was Tony, a seemingly average looking guy who would post up at
the bar and ask for a the very Christmassy peppermint mocha, even in
the hot summer months.  Through small talk, I learned that he was the
CEO of an international company, and the owner of the towering Zurich
building that overlooked the mall.  Suddenly it made sense how he
could confidently help himself to such a drink that was really meant
for teen girls.

One quiet night while sweeping the cafe, I was chatting with my friend
Hemant.  He was sharply dressed and carried a leather briefcase, and I
would frequently ask Hemant for carreer advice.

"I have an interview, Hemant," I said.

"This is great news, Alex.  Great news.  Tell me, what is the
position?" he said, leaning in.

"A software engineer.  It's a little different than what I went to
school for, but I think I'll really like it," I replied.

"Ah, that's good work," said Hemant.  "That' a good industry to go
into."

"I was wondering if I should get a haircut before the interview?" I
asked, motioning to my long blond hair that I had let grow out all of
college.

"I wouldn't do that," he said quickly.  "Leave it long."

"Really," I replied, shocked.  "Why is that?"

"Guys who deal with the money, they want them to look like me," he
said.  "I'm clean cut.  I iron my shirts.  I stay on the phone all the
time to look available.  Investors like that.  But they guy who is in
charge of the code and the software and all the technical details?
They want somebody like you, who is laid back.  They want someone who
is not easily stressed out.  They want a young kid who can stay up
late.  They want... you know, cool skater kids like you."

Hemant leaned in to emphasize his point.  "Alex, don't cut your hair.
Just be cool - they'll like that."

Hemant gave good advice.  I went to the interview without cutting my
hair.  I was offered the job.  With a heavy heart, I put in my two
weeks at Starbucks.

I worked at Starbucks for three years during high school.  I took a
short year off my Freshmen year of college, then worked through the
rest of my time in school until the summer I graduated.  In total,
that's six years working as a Starbucks barista.  Sometimes I forget
that technically, I've never held down a job for as long as I did at
Starbucks.  I've only been a software engineer for, in total, one year
longer.  One could argue that even now, I'm still more tenured as a
barista than what I'm doing now.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/starbucks/selfie.jpg">
    <img alt="starbucks selfie" src="/images/starbucks/selfie.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Finishing up my final shift at the store, I penned a quick letter with
a sharpie, leaving it pinned to our bulletin board in the back room.
In my overly flowerly letter, I sign off with a quote from the mighty
ducks movie.

"No matter how far you fly, never forget the pond you came from."

I don't remember the bad things about Starbucks anymore - long hours,
difficult customers, and mentally clawing at the walls out of boredom.
With the more painful day to day memories behind me, I only remember
the good things now.  I only remember the friendships, the free food,
and the delirious late night laughter.  Most surprising of all, I feel
grateful.  The Streets of Woodfield Starbucks was my first pond, and I
couldn't forget it, even if I tried.
