---
title: wallpapers, blacklists, and snowballs through windows
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Tuesday. I hope that you're feeling good
today and ready to return to work. I probably relaxed a little too hard
this weekend. Whether the extra weekend snacking, the junk food, or the
sleeping in is to blame, I'm having a hard time waking up this morning.
But I'll get there. The promise of more coffee keeps me interested in
getting out the door and on my way to work, and in the end, that's all I
need as motivation.

Speaking of relaxation, yesterday was a great day. In the late morning,
Marissa surprised me by taking Rodney to Home Depot - leaving me to hang
out in the dining room and continue working on code. This week as my IT
task, I'm bolting on a photo manager to our internal website where you
can quickly upload photos to be added into the random desktop wallpapers
and screensavers that appear throughout the house. Using random,
regularly rotating photos as the computer wallpaper started out as a
small, spontaneous thing that I slapped together one day on our family
computer, but it's turned into a real source of joy for me, and I'm
happy to invest more time into it. It also felt great to get a long
coding session in. It felt good to be alone with my thoughts and clean
things up on the homefront.

Marissa and Rodney returned, and while they were out, they picked me up
an iced coffee from mocha. Rodney sat at the table with his mango
smoothie. For lunch, I made Marissa and Rodney a double batch of Paw
Patrol Mac n Cheese. As this is Rodney's favorite meal, there was a lot
of pressure on me to make it right. I was under strict orders to skip
adding the milk, and not add anything extra like meat or pickles. In the
end, my batch was acceptable, and I showed that I could be relied upon
for a straight up, no frills bowl of Paw Patrol Mac n Cheese. I heated
up a bowl of ramen and joined them at the table for lunch. We toasted
our Mocha beverages.

After lunch, I put Rodney down for a nap. I was tempted to return to
coding, but as the snow was starting to pickup, I thought it was a good
time to do some shoveling. I cleared the deck, porch, and the driveway
while the puppies frolicked outside. Despite the accumulating snow, it
was a warmer day. I barely felt the need to wear a coat. The snow was
also damp and fluffy, and just about perfect for making snowballs. While
shoveling, I got distracted by trying to get a snowball onto East
Washington from our back deck.

After the sun went down, Marissa slowly woke up from her nap on the
couch, and I got Rodney out of his room. The plan was to spend the
evening bowling at our usual place. While Marissa got put the dogs away
and locked up the house, Rodney and I headed outside to the back porch
to play in the snow. Rodney ran around the backyard while I lobbed
snowballs at him. Then he started to point to things he wanted me to
hit. I threw a snowball at the brick side of our house, his bedroom
window, his swingset, and the back door.

"Dude, let me see if I can hit the garage window from here," I said,
packing another snowball together. Rodney stood by in anticipation as I
cocked my arm and launched the snowball. It struck squarely on the
window pane, shattering the glass. A few shards of glass tumbled to the
ground. Rodney's mouth dropped. "*Uh Oh*", he said. Even though it would
have been fun to build the moment up and see if Rodney would snitch on
me, I instead chose to alleviate his conscience. "It's OK dude," I said.
"That window was already broken. Here - let's get the pieces so the dogs
don't step on 'em." Marissa came outside as we were picking up the mess.
No explanation was needed.

We jumped in the car, drove to Dream Lanes, and found our way to an
empty lane. While renting a lane and ordering food, we had an important
moment of clarity about our usual bowling alley. "I don't have any
working lanes open," said the guy at the counter. "The bumpers don't
work, they'll either have to be all up or all down."

"Isn't it weird how we always get stuck with a broken lane?" I asked
Marissa after the guy walked back to the counter. "It felt like we
walked by several good, empty lanes. And while we're at it, why does it
always feel like 75% of this place is booked out for leagues every
night?" We started to notice a pattern. Casual, non-league bowlers like
us were always assigned lanes 1 through 6. At the other end of the
alley, was a group of much more serious players. "They don't even look
like they're having fun," commented Marissa.

Our food arrived. They got our order wrong, and they brought us the
wrong sized pizza. Instead of asking them to remake it, I instead went
back to the counter to order a side of pig wings. "The pig wings are
\$10 now," said the kid at the counter. "That's ridiculous," I replied.
"Yeah, I know," said the kid at the counter. "I wish I could give you a
discount, but I can't."

"Dream Lanes is black listed," I announced, returning from food counter
and holding a resolute finger in the air. *Black listing* is a very
serious matter for our family. It happens when enough goes wrong all at
once to make us so angry at a restaurant or establishment that we can
never go back. By the end of the night, we even had Rodney yelling *Ya
BLACKLISTED*. So to sum up, the Recker family is now officially
interviewing for a new bowling alley.

Today should be a good day. This is the final week before we temporarily
move out of our house. While we're right on track productivity wise,
this is an important week to stay the course. Our house will start to
feel really empty as we approach Sunday.

Thanks for reading. Hope you have a wonderful day.

