---
title: social distancing visits, sock hands, and the three logos rule
banner: 2020-06-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Sunday morning.  The Recker family is
taking it slowly today - almost every member of our family is at least
an hour late in the usual morning routine. On top of that, Marissa
woke me up with a cup of coffee in bed, and I was pretty much
obligated to stay in bed a little longer to enjoy it.  Is there
anything more debaucherous than using the first wave of energy from
the first cup of coffee to just sit in bed and browse the Internet on
your phone?

I suppose we're still resting from yesterday.  We had my parents over
for our first social distancing get-together.  Before they arrived, I
spent the morning tidying up and finishing up some bread in the oven.
I baked a loaf of beer bread for my parents to take home, which turned
out great, but the sourdough loaf I wanted to send home with them for
my sister was a different story.

"Look at this mess," I laughed, holding out the golden brown, dense
disk of dough for Marissa to admire.  "This thing is like the weight
of a dying star."

"Oh no, what happened?" asked Marissa empathetically.

"I'm not sure," I said puzzled, looking at the loaf.  "Maybe it's just
been a while since I've done one of these.  Or Maybe _Krang_ is mad at
me because I'm back to baking bread, and as we all know, _Krang_
thinks my bread sucks."

My parents arrived in the morning, filing into our backyard with
a cooler of beer and a to-go bag of Portillo's.

"This is weird!" laughed my mom, giving us an awkward wave from six
feet away.  Rodney ran out to meet them.

"Remember dude," I said, grabbing him by the shirt sleeve.  "No
touching.  Just a weird rule right now."  Rodney nodded.  Luckily,
Rodney isn't at the age where he asks _why_ about things.

Once we were set up with food and drinks, the social distancing didn't
feel so weird anymore.  We chatted about the pandemic, the protests -
how life has changed, and what adapting to quarantine has been like.

"It was hard to work up to doing something like this," said Marissa.
"All the while, we had been telling ourselves _It will feel right_
when it's time to go back to normal life..."

"But we were wrong," I added.  "It still doesn't feel right.  And the
scary thing about quarantine is that in some ways, we've adapted so
well to this much quieter lifestyle, it feels like a permanent
change."

"Yeah, in some ways, we actually kind of like it!" laughed my dad.

"And we'll definitely keep some aspects of our quarantine life
around," I replied.  "Cooking, baking bread, taking advantage of
remote work.  But we've had to challenge ourselves to start slowly
returning to real life - which is why we invited you guys out."

"Do you want me to bring out Miles?" asked Marissa beaming.  My
parents eagerly nodded.  Marissa disappeared into our kitchen, and a
moment later she returned with Miles, laying him in his baby chair in
a shady corner of the deck.  We stared at him like he was a
decoration.

"He looks so much different up close," laughed my mom.  "He's cute in
pictures, but he's so cute in person too."

My parents snapped a picture of us.  "I think this is the first
updated family photo we've taken," said Marissa.

After putting on our masks, we gave them a cautious tour of our house.
Marissa and I realized it had been so long since they were last
inside, there were a lot of new changes to show them - both big and
small.

"It's so much fun showing you everything we did," said Marissa taking
them around, beaming with pride.

After a few globs of hand sanitizer, we bid my parents farewell.  As
awkward as it was to greet them without embracing, it was even
stranger to wave while they just walked out the door.

"And then we just _walk away_ - how weird is this!" laughed my mom.

After cleaning up from entertaining, our entire family shut down,
taking a long afternoon nap.  Marissa slept.  Miles slept.  The dogs
slept.  Rodney slept.  Even I dozed off on the couch while trying to
watch a new recipe video on YouTube.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/ziggy-sleeping.jpg">
    <img alt="ziggy sleeping" src="/images/ziggy-sleeping.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Afternoon nap mood</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"See - this is what I'm worried about," I laughed, as Marissa started
to stir out of her afternoon hiberation.  "See how tired we are from
just having someone over for lunch?  How are we ever going to go back
to throwing parties and having people overnight?"

"Geez, no kidding," laughed Marissa.  "Miles even slept through his
feeding.  He must have been so tired from being outside with us."

Collecting Rodney from his room to end quiet time, I found him peeking
his head out of his door.  He showed me his hands, which he had
covered with a pair of socks.

"See dada!  Look, now I can touch Grandma Jane and Grandpa Dirk!"
Rodney wiggled his cover fingers in front of my face.

"Sock hands - nice, dude!"  I chuckled.  "You know I gotta hand it to
you.  You just kind of independently invented the concept of
protective gloves.  Maybe next time we have them over, you can wear
gloves and give them a high five."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sock-hands.jpg">
    <img alt="sock hands" src="/images/sock-hands.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Sock Hands, patent pending</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney watched TV on the couch while I heated up leftovers.  Through
the mysterious forces of YouTube auto recommendations, Rodney
discovered this strange channel where kids make home videos using
their superhero halloween costumes.  Rodney simply refers to it as
_Spider-Man Kids_.

"It's weird," said Marissa, who was half paying attention to the show.
"But it's kind of funny sometimes, and Rodney likes it.  Why not?"

Before putting Rodney to bed, Marissa crashed our story time and
climbed into bed with us.  The dogs joined us as well.  I turned the
light off, and pretended that we were all going to fall asleep in
Rodney's bed for the night.

"That was cute," laughed Marissa as we drank a beer on the deck.  "I
like to think that in his little head, he was hoping that we were all
really going to sleep in his room that night."  I smiled, taking a
swig of beer.

Hey - can I ask you something," said Marissa changing the subject,
resting the garden hose on the deck.  "Can I pull off this hoodie?"

Marissa, who was sporting a new pink adidas hoodie that arrived in the
mail, twirled so I could make a fair, comprehensive judgment.

"Of course you can," I laughed.  "It's a cool hoodie."

"It feels too _hip_ for me," said Marissa.

"Too hip?  You're 27 years old.  That stuff is made for you!" I
laughed.  "You should get a pair of Adidas flip flops too, since
you are out in the yard so much."

"You don't think I look like a poser?  I really like Adidas stuff, but
is that too many Adidas things?" she asked.

"Nah, that doesn't matter.  Just follow the _three logos_ rule," I
said.

"Three logos?" asked Marissa.

"Yeah," I said, nodding.  "There's a rule that you can't have three
visible logos of the same clothing brand.  So you can't wear like that
hoodie, a hat, and Adidas flip flops."

"What about a t-shirt under my hoodie?" asked Marissa.

"I think that's OK," I said.  "It's not visible.  The goal is to not
look like an Adidas shill just walking down the street."  I set my
beer down to explain.

"For some reason, it feels easier to explain with the Monster energy
drink logo.  So if you saw someone wearing a Monster hat, what would
you think of them?"

"That's not a big deal, I guess that's fine," replied Marissa.

"OK, what about somebody who is wearing a Monster hat, a Monster t
shirt, and a pair of Monster athletic sweats?"

Marissa paused, staring out into the yard to think.

"I would think they were... a _monstrous_ asshole," she said.  We both
broke out into wild laughter.

"I didn't expect that," I said, composing myself.  "But sure.  I think
you get it now."
