---
title: paella, shipping, and copyright law
banner: 2020-07-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It's an uncharacteristically cool morning
here in beautiful Madison, Wisconsin.  Last night's very exciting
thunderstorm left a few lingering grey clouds in the sky.  The more
typical hot, humid mornings have been doing wonders for proofing
[Krang Bread], but life isn't all about bread.  I'll take the cool
weather too.

We could use some cool weather around here.  We're about to head into
a busy weekend of back-to-back party hosting for Rodney's birthday.
Because of good 'ol coronavirus, we can't throw one giant open-invite
rager in our backyard like we've done in past years.  Instead, we're
throwing two smaller, more cautious gatherings for each side of the
family.

Yesterday, the dining room table was our party planning war room.
Marissa and I sat in front of a blank page in her notebook to discuss
the menu.

"So fajitas for my side," she pondered aloud.  "And are we doing a
side with that?  I feel like we need something other than chips and
dip."

"I think we should make [paella]," I said.

"Paella?" Questioned Marissa.  "Does that go together?"

"Yes," I said confidently, then I muttered the rest of my thought into
my coffee mug.  "Probably."

"Probably?" laughed Marissa.

"Well it's close enough - one is Mexican and one is from Spain," I
said, pulling out my phone to flick through some quick Google results.
"Ah there you go - there's such thing as _Mexican_ paella.  We're
going with that."

"OK, if you say so," said Marissa.

"To be honest, I was just filling out a recipe page for [paella], and
staring at the picture made me want to eat it again.  Oh, can I make
paella tonight?" I asked.

"Get off paella," said Marissa sharply, referencing a [scene from
Bob's Burgers].

Knowing that we're heading into such a busy weekend, we made an effort
to lay low yesterday.  Marissa spent most of the day shipping
paintings.  Last weekend's Astuary Art fire sale was a smashing
success, but consequently her one-person shipping department was
quickly overwhelmed with an intimidating amount of work to get through
before the parties this weekend.  Her shipping supplies were spread
out on the living room floor.  She feverishly worked with cardboard,
tape, and labels to leave a towering stack of twelve boxes by the
door.

"Will you leave all these on the porch tomorrow morning?" she asked.

"Oh sure thing," I said, admiring the skyscraper of neatly taped and
labeled packages.  "So this has to be like _most_ of them, right?"

Marissa stood for a moment with her hands on her hips, mentally
running through the orders that remained.  "It's about sixty percent,"
she said.

"Oh right, it's a _large_," I replied.  In our home project tracking
system, a large was either supposed to be two weekday nights or an
entire Saturday.  As the sale shipping project was now spilling over
into the third day of work, I felt the need to poke fun at how wildly
innacurate her estimation proved to be.

"I know - I underestimated this.  Just classic, huh?" laughed Marissa.

Apparently, Marissa sees her work the same way I see food.  Our eyes
are bigger than our stomachs - or something like that.  I guess that's
not the cleanest analogy.

As Marissa was busy with her shipping work, I enjoyed lots of computer
time tinkering with code and catching up on emails.  This week, I've
been going back and forth over email with a curator from the
[Wisconsin Historical Society].  As part of their COVID Journal
Project, they're encouraging people to keep daily journals of how the
pandemic has impacted their lives and submit them to the historical
society's archives - a tradition they first started when they
encouraged Union soldiers to do the same during the Civil War.

Since I'm doing the writing anyway, I decided to reach out with
interest.  Now that we've passed the ninety day mark, they emailed me
some instructions as well as a deed to sign.

Some of the verbiage in the document kind of scared me.  As part of
making a donation, you must transfer all ownership of the documents to
the society so they can use, analyze, quote, and store it as they see
fit.

"We would own your gift," explained the curator, "but we would never
let that stop you from using the same work for your own purposes.  Are
goal is to make historical documents more available, and not less
available."

I didn't spare any follow up questions.  Coming up on almost a year of
daily journaling and almost four hundred thousand words, I didn't want
to make any rash decisions.  "I know they're good people," I explained
to Marissa.  "But I don't want to accidentally transfer ownership of
the whole thing to them.  What if the archives get purchased?  What if
I were to get sued?"

Marissa and I spit-balled, like a round of dueling amateur copyright
lawyers.  "What if the deed just applied to the contents of the email.
Like if I sent them a ZIP file, couldn't I just specify that the
document only applies to those contents - the copy, and not the
original?"

"Well think of, like, a picture," said Marissa.  "If you copyright a
picture, it doesn't matter if it's in a PDF, a website, or printed on
a flyer.  You're still using the owned work."

"But it would be my picture," I said.  "I _think_ since I own the
original work, I can make copies on a case by case basis, and I can
change the license for just a specific copy.  That's at least how it
works with source code - the license is always saved along side the
code."

Luckily, the Historical Society is much more familiar with this stuff
than we are.  They were able to satisfy my numerous pedantic questions
and make it clear that I can add my own verbiage to the contract
declaring that the gift was just a _copy_ of the journal at one point.

Copyright law is funny, isn't it?  The problems can be interesting,
but the verbiage is just so utterly boring.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Happy Friday, and for those in either
of the ten person gatherings coming to Rodney's birthday, we're
looking forward to seeing you.  Come hungry - we're making a lot of
paella and fajitas.

Oh, and happy birthday to my dear sister Kelly.  Hope you have an
especially good day today.

[paella]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/paella/
[Krang Bread]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/krang-bread/
[scene from Bob's Burgers]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4oYZiY64xYA
[Wisconsin Historical Society]: https://www.wisconsinhistory.org/
