---
title: real life, catch, and knife skills
banner: 2020-04-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Hope you're having a good Monday morning so
far.  It feels good to begin another work week.  The weekend flew by
quickly, but I got at least one nap in and plenty of time outside, so
I'm not complaining.  Feeling rested and appreciative, I'm ready to
jump back into work.

Although if I were to be honest with you, I think the real reason I'm
ready to jump back into work is that I don't expect to finish out the
week.  Marissa is now at the stage of pregnancy where it just looks
like she's concealing a full sized baby under her shirt at all times.
I can almost count the fingers and toes protruding from her stomach.
I believe the medical term for this stage of pregnancy is _hella
preggo_.

So, with the nearing possibility that my entire work TODO list could
be wiped out at a moment's notice, it's no wonder why I'm feeling so
nonchalant about everything.

_Sip_.  Is it just me, or does life kind of feel busy again?  I
remember when the quarantine first started, I was so amused by how
much more free time made its way back into my life.  With nowhere to
go, and nothing to do outside of the house, daily life lurched
backwards like someone was pumping the brakes on a car.  I even
remember making jokes to people, saying "we had a busy week, I think
we're just going to hang around the house this weekend - we're a
little burnt out by people."  A month ago, that joke was landing
pretty well, and there was a shared understanding that everyone was
starved for social interaction.

Maybe it's just me, but this week, that sounds like a perfectly valid
excuse.  Zoom calls with friends, emails, messages, chores, and other
work around the house can really fill a week, and "we're a little
burnt out by people" sounds perfectly valid.

So the way I see it, there are two possibilities.  Either the novelty
of stay-at-home life needed to wear off before the demands of life
could be felt again, or we're all just accustomed to doing much less
now.

"Do you ever worry that we might go out into the real world and just
find everything to be so exhausting?" I asked Marissa.  "What if the
first month of regular life just kicks our ass because we're not used
to doing things?"

Marissa laughed and nodded.  "I thought about that, I think it's a
real possibility."

Whenever real life opens back up again, it could get hectic.
Ironically, I may have to wean myself back into my wily socializing,
errand-running pre-covid lifestyle.  Keep a look out for that, I
guess.

Yesterday was restful.  Marissa hung out with Rodney all morning so I
could write, and afterwards I joined them outside.

"I tried playing baseball with Rodney and I think he was
disappointed," said Marissa squinting up at me in the bright morning
sunlight.

"Oh yeah?" I replied.  "What happened?"

"Well, first off I told him that I can't leave this chair.  Big momma
ain't even bending over to pick up the ball.  I was making him laugh
because whenever the ball rolled near me, I'd just do _this_ until
Rodney came over to get it."

Marissa lowered a careless hand to the ground and absent-mindedly
twirled her fingers.  Even seeing her reenact it from his playhouse,
Rodney laughed again.

"And then there was a problem with how I was throwing it," she
continued.  "I'm not great at throwing a baseball, and he was trying
to coach me.  He'd say 'Momma - try to hit the bat,' as if that's not
what I was already trying to do."

I played ball with Rodney for a bit.  I lobbed a few whiffle ball
pitches at him, then we rounded things off with a game of catch with
the football.  Rodney's hands are getting good.  He has some throwing
work to do, but his catching is starting to surprise me.  Throwing the
ball from all the way across the backyard, I'd fully expect the ball
to just strike him in the face.  But Rodney can stop the ball mid-air,
and pull the catch into his chest with excellent form.  Of course, one
out of every five throws still just strikes him in the face.

We watched church with lunch, and afterwards I made a trip to the
grocery store.  Marissa ordered some new hand-made masks from an
Instagram friend, and my new soft burgundy colored face cover is a
welcome improvement over the scratchy painting mask I was wearing.
The old mask would make my nose and mouth feel so dry, I'd return home
with a near nosebleed.

"What was Hy-Vee like?" asked Marissa as I returned home, slinging
bags of groceries to the ground.

"Good!  They had almost everything - I was finally able to restock
butter.  And pretty much everyone wears gloves and masks now," I
replied.

I gave Marissa the afternoon to nap while I ran interference for
Rodney, doing my best to keep him occupied in the kitchen.  I put him
to work with the pork chops, showing him how to flip the meat with a
_glubbed_ hand while I seasoned them with salt and pepper.

Next, we sliced up some asparagus.  I momentarily upgraded Rodney to a
real knife so I could show him good technique.  He learned how to curl
his fingers back and 'let the knife do the work'.  Slicing up a few
stalks of asparagus, he excitedly threw his hands up in the air, still
holding the knife.

"I did it!" he yelled as I bobbed my head out of the way of his blade.

"Nice dude," I said calmly.  "But you have to keep the knife on the
board - no swinging it around."

I demoted Rodney back to his usual butter knife and we finished
dinner.  We ate at the table, feasting on asparagus, barbecue pork
chops, baked potatoes with cheese, and a homemade loaf of French bread
that turned out absolutely perfect.  It was a nice filling meal to end
the weekend on.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day
today.
