---
title: time management, icecream drama, and botched fireworks
banner: 2020-09-06.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is your Sunday going so far?  After an
action packed Saturday that led to everyone getting to bed a little
later than usual, we slept in and we're taking things slow today.
Cereal bars.  Coffee.  Minimal cleaning - that kind of morning.

I was just catching up on Facebook comments from yesterdays posts.
One of the best parts of these longer Saturday posts is when old
friends come out of the wood work to join in on the reminiscing.  I
think if I were to mention _all_ the fun times I had working at
Starbucks, we would have a never ending journal entry situation on our
hands.  I would probably still be writing.

And speaking of which, as much as I love these mega long Saturday
entry posts, they pose a serious time management problem.  Yesterday
from the time I woke up, I spent just about the rest of the morning
and early afternoon writing.  I leaned on Marissa to make watch Miles,
entertain Rodney, and even make lunch.  She rightfully teased me for
the oversight when I was all through.

"So I forget," I said smirking, finally joining my family outside.
"Am I supposed to like, spend time with you guys or something?"

"Who is that?" joked Marissa.  "Oh wait, I remember - I think that's
daddy.  We haven't seen you in a while."

"This morning won't happen again," I said more sincerely.  "I like
doing special entries on Saturday, but I'm going to figure out a
better time to do them."

"It's OK - I figured," she said.  "And the boys were good - Charles
Mingus is just sleeping in his crib, and jobsite Rodney has been
helping me work on the raised garden."

We decided to take the clan out for a long walk through the
neighborhood.  Miles led the caravan in the front in his strolled,
followed by the dogs, followed by Rodney in his green wagon bringing
up the rear.  We're kind of a large family now, and we take up much of
the sidewalk.  Marissa and I fondly remember a time when we could
actually stride side-by-side on a walk and we only had one dog to
worry about.  Now we practically take up the entire sidewalk, and we
stretch over two driveways.

"We're the obnoxiously adorable caravan," says Marissa.

We were en route to visit our favorite ice cream shop.  Since last
summer, following some ridiculous neighborhood ice cream shop drama,
the shop was forced to move.  We tried to follow the action through
Facebook and reddit threads.  From what we could tell, it was a petty
stand-off between the shop owner and the building manager.  The
manager refused to renew the lease because he wanted to sell the
building to a new ice cream distributor.  The shop owner refused to
leave.  The drama culminated one weekend when the cops were called;
the building manager had chained the doors shut, and the employees
couldn't open the store.

The new icecream distributor moved in, and the original was displaced.
They bought a new location about 100 feet away.  But the truly
ridiculous part of this story is that they _both_ sell the same
Schoep's icecream.

And I guess what underscores all of this is how easy we had it last
summer.  I'd love to go back to a time where the most controversial
thing we had to worry about was the famous Atwood Schoep's icecream
wars of 2019.

So yesterday, we made our way to the new Schoep's icecream shop.  They
have a cozy little enclave tucked between their new building and the
bike path.  We tied the dogs to our metal table and feasted on
icecream.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-06/icecream.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 06 icecream" src="/images/2020-09-06/icecream.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Rodney climbs into his seat to enjoy his multi-colored
Superman flavored ice cream.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

When it was time to leave, I popped up from my chair and tossed my
gooey icecream cup into the metal garbage can.  I heard the plastic
cup and spoon hit the metal can.  An employee, who was in the middle
of changing out the liner, noticed.  Once I realized what I had done,
my heart sank.

"Oh no, I am so sorry," I said.

"It's fine - it's fine," she said, grabbing some cleaning supplies.

"Seriously," I said, trying to give a more earnest apology.  "I think
this is the worst thing you can do to another person, and I'm so
sorry."

"No, don't worry about it sir," said the employee.  "We got it, it's
no big deal."

There must have been melted oreo ice cream all over that hot metal
garbage can.  As we left, I counted five yellow jackets in the
vicinity.  I'm glad I had a chance to apologize, but it was a
difficult transgression to shake off.

To the Schoep's ice cream girl, I am sorry.  Allow me to borrow from
the great philosopher Taylor Swift and say, _the worst thing I ever
did was what I did to you_.

Back at home, we put Rodney down for a nap, and I prepared a pizza.
That evening, we had tickets to a fireworks show.  After letting the
pizza cool, I packed the cooler with silverware and drinks, and
Marissa picked up some other snacks with a quick Target run.  Finally,
at 8:30 when we'd normally be putting Rodney to bed, we all jumped in
the car and headed to the show.

The parking attendants guided us to a spot in front of yellow caution
tape.  In front of our car in the dark parking, we could see some guys
setting up equipment around a truck.

"Oh man," said Marissa giggling.  "I think they're shooting them off
right there.  We have a front row seat."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-06/front-row-seat.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 06 front row seat" src="/images/2020-09-06/front-row-seat.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Our front row view of the action</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney climbed into the front seat with us.  Under the illumination of
booming fireworks, we ate pizza and snacks.  Rodney felt _iffy_ about
the whole thing.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-06/sunroof.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 06 sunroof" src="/images/2020-09-06/sunroof.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Pizza and snacks under the rockets red glare</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"They're a little bit too noisy," he said, holding his years.  "They
make me kind of scared.  I think we should go now - we should get
going."

Marissa stepped in to ease his worries.  "There's nothing to be scared
of, Rodney.  Look, aren't they beautiful?"

"And they're perfectly safe, dude," I said.  "These guys know what
they're doing."

"Look Rod," said Marissa.  "They're about to do the _grand finale_."

With anticipation, we watch from our car as they dragged out a final
barrel of fireworks.  There was some movement, and then all of the
sudden, the barrel exploded into a giant fireball.  The orange and
yellow flames licked into the sky, casting an eerie glow on the
parking lot.  A plume of dark, ashy smoke rose up.

"I... don't think that was intentional," chuckled Marissa.  "What just
happened?"

"I think they botched it," I said.  "Look the fire department is going
in."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-06/aftermath.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 06 aftermath" src="/images/2020-09-06/aftermath.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Aftermath of the unintentional explosion.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

So the show had a different kind of grand finale.  And after trying to
ease Rodney's worries, the timing couldn't have been worse.  Still a
good show, though.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day today.
