---
title: de-scaling, shipping, eating out, and haircuts
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Tuesday. I hope you're feeling energy this
morning, staying warm, and staying focused on your goals. I also hope
you, like me, have a nice warm cup of coffee to help you keep things
under control. Our coffee is hitting me just right this morning. A few
days ago I finally got my act together and cleaned our coffee maker,
using a special packet of *descaling agent* and general cleaning
solution that arrived in the mail in tiny white boxes. "That looks like
birth control," said Marissa, seeing me rip open the tiny white boxes.
She's right - one box even had a strip of pink on the label, and the
other blue.

Now descaled (and added to the monthly chore rotation), it practically
tastes brand new. "I gotta hand it to you," I told Marissa. "I think you
are just more sensitive to bad coffee. I must have a higher tolerance
for drinking the terrible stuff." And it's true - if not for her
complaining, I would have probably put it off for another month, letting
our coffee maker get more… *scaley*? In the same spirit of things, I'm
trying to stay on top of our water quality. So once a month henceforth,
not only will I break out the coffee machine birth control, but I will
also lug a heavy bag of water softener salt down the stairs and dump it
into the plastic tank.

Yesterday was a good day. I worked from home in the morning, expecting
to help Marissa get the paintings into the freight truck sometime in the
morning. But as these things usually work, morning passed, lunch passed,
and the truck wouldn't actually arrive until the late afternoon. But I
still appreciated the slow start to the week, attending some meetings
upstairs from our bedroom and hacking on some code in the living room
while Rodney played. For lunch, I scarfed down some goulash leftovers
standing in the kitchen, eating them right out of microwaved tupperware.

This week at work, I'm kicking off a new project with our tech lead,
researching some options for putting our team to work in the realm of
client side secret management. We're also getting ready for some
visiting higher ups who will want to sit down with our team and hear
about what we're working on.

Around 4, Marissa got a call from UPS saying that the driver would be
there within the half hour. I shut my laptop and helped her hoist the
heavy box out to the driveway. We stood it up on its side and patiently
waiting. Twenty minutes later, she got another call from UPS. I could
tell from her end of the phone call that they were trying to negotiate
postponing the pick-up. "I'm sorry, but I need it out today. I feel like
I was pretty generous and flexible, we hung around the house all day and
I need this thing to head out," she said sternly. More chatter
proceeded. "Is there anything I could have done to make this go more
smoothly," she added.

Marissa hung up the phone. "They wanted to push it a day, I said no, and
then suddenly two drivers were available to do it," she said rolling her
eyes. Her phone rang again, and after a brief conversation, she hung up
and reported, "he's on the beltline, he'll be here in twenty minutes." I
trotted into the house to get the football. With Rodney upstairs
sleeping and the dogs waiting patiently in their crates, we had a rare
opportunity to play a true game of outside catch, undisturbed. Marissa
and I laughed as we both tried to adjust to the cold and longer throwing
range. "Our living room must be pretty small, it's making me look bad,"
I laughed, lobbing the ball sloppily toward her feet. Marissa threw it
back - a better throw than mine, but skewed slightly toward the grass. I
made a over enthusiastic diving catching, landing in the neighbor's
front lawn and rolling into a snowbank.

The UPS truck arrived, and we hoisted the paintings into the truck.
Marissa recognized the driver from last time she had to ship a big
painting. "We're much more prepared this time," she said proudly patting
the box. After a few last throws of the football, we retreated back
inside. Our house felt - and our week - felt lighter without the giant
box looming over our living room. "I feel like I can finally close my
eyes and rest," said Marissa climbing underneath a blanket on the couch.
We rested, letting the TV play quietly in the living room as the sun
went down. Marissa dozed off, and I hacked on some 'fun' code on my
laptop. Soon, Rodney joined us in the living room, contentedly playing
with some toy airplanes on the couch between us.

"Time to go out to eat?" I said. The family stirred, and after putting
the dogs upstairs and getting bundled up, we jumped in the car bound for
Glass Nickel, which has been making a comeback lately in the lazy eat
out portion of our week. We found a comfortable booth. Marissa and I sat
at the end, and Rodney scooted all the way down towards the wall at the
other end of the booth. Marissa and I smiled, amused at his sudden
demand for ample personal space. Rodney busily played with his toy
planes and drew on his magnet pad, trying to forget that we were
watching him.

Rodney continued drawing on his magnet pad. "Do we have to teach him
letters?" said Marissa breaking the silence. I furrowed my brow and
shook my head. "Nah, that's a school thing. Plus I bet he already knows
him." Marissa turned toward Rodney. "Hey Rod," she said. Rodney paused
and looked up, taking a sip of milk. "Can you draw an *O*?"

"Coming right up," muttered Rodney picking up his pen. He drew a large,
deliberate circle and proudly held up his magnet pad. "Now draw an E," I
said. Rodney drew a capital *E*, filling up the whole pad.

We finished dinner, drove home, and put Rodney to bed. Marissa gave me a
haircut in the bathroom. "I'm sorry it's been so long since we got
around to this," said Marissa as tuffs of scruff fell rolled off my
shirt onto the bathroom floor. "Hey, I wasn't asking for one either,
that's on me too," I replied. Staring blankly at the mirror while
Marissa cut my hair kind of reminded me of that one Beyonce album cover
where she's cutting Jay Z's hair in the bathroom - only a much less cool
version of the scene. Don't get me wrong - I have my own brand of
self-esteem, but I'm not Jay-Z.

I wrapped up a few chores, and we ended the night with a quick YouTube
binge and a movie while I enjoyed a beer on the couch. It was a good
day.

Here's to Tuesday. Hope you have a great day today, and thanks for
reading.

