---
title: grocery shopping, new plants, and poulet creme champignons
banner: 2020-05-30.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How are you feeling today?  I'm moving pretty
slowly this morning.  Remember that bottle of port I was so excited
about?  Well, I did solid work last night putting away most of the
bottle, and this morning I have a metaphorical axe wedged in my
forehead, but it's nothing that hot coffee and a cheesy, greasy
breakfast can't fix.

At the moment, Rodney and I are hanging out on the couch watching
_Dude Perfect_, and the only thing still stealing my focus from
reflecting on yesterday is a web chat I have open with Google's
customer support about the new phones Marissa and I ordered.

"Sir, I have a package that was delivered to you at \[my old
Schaumburg address\]," a lady at FedEx told me yesterday over the
phone.

"HA!" I laughed haughtily.  "I haven't lived there in a while, whoever
sent that package is clearly lost.  Just send it back to them!"

It turns out the lost package I was mocking contained our new phones,
and I hadn't updated my address in the Google store.  Looks like I'll
be rocking the cracked screen Moto X for another week.

_Sip_.  The phone shipping mix-up is just a small hiccup in an
otherwise wonderful weekend.  We had a wonderful day yesterday.  In
the morning, I had no trouble getting Rodney out of bed.  We had an
exciting adventure planned.

"Dude, today we're going to the grocery store," I said after shuffling
into his bedroom.  Rodney sprang up, threw on a new outfit, and soon
the two of us were huddled around a sheet of paper, penning a grocery
list.

"Cheese, chicken breasts, cream... some stock...," I muttered to
myself.

"Mac 'N Cheese, _crappy_ bars, _pahtrol_ fruit snacks," said Rodney,
trying to complete my thought.  I nodded, pretending to write down his
items as well.

Aside from a short stay at a friend's house while we were having
Miles, Rodney hadn't been anywhere since the quarantine started, and
he was still feeling iffy about wearing a face mask.  In all the
conversations we had priming him for the first comeback grocery trip,
Rodney seemed to think that he could wear his bike helmet instead.

"And you're going to wear your mask, right dude?"  I asked as we
strapped our shoes on.

"Wear mask later.  I can wear my helmet," said Rodney.

"No dude, no helmet.  It's gotta be your mask," I said assertively.
Rodney sighed, and stuffed his little face mask in his back pocket
before we slipped out the back door.

A few blocks before reaching the grocery store, Rodney piped up,
raising his voice over our quiet summer tunes.

"Hey, _Peter Parker_," he said.  "I try mask on."  I gave him a quick
thumbs up over my shoulder while waiting at the stop light.

Our shopping trip was incredible.  Rodney was so happy to be back at
Hy-Vee that he pretty much forgot he was wearing a mask.  He was more
concerned about crossing everything off on our grocery list.

{% 
include figure.html 
filename="shopping-with-a-mask.jpg" 
caption="A masked Rodney diligently checks our grocery list in the Hy-Vee cheese aisle."
%}

Out of gratitude for his good behavior, I bought pretty much
everything Rodney pointed at.  With our usual grocery haul, we picked
up a new red ball and a chocolate egg.

"Thank you very much," he said to the cashier as she printed our
receipt.  I could see the cashier's cheek bones form a smile from
behind her black cloth mask.

"You're so cute," she said.

I was impressed.  Even after a few months apart from our grocery
shopping ritual and coming back to a very different looking Hy-Vee,
Rodney still remembered everything.  The world's best shopping buddy
was out of retirement with very little dust to shake off.

"Rodney is in such a good mood," said Marissa, beaming with delight as
we picked over leftovers for lunch.  "He hasn't watched TV all
morning, and he's been really well-behaved.  I think that grocery trip
made a huge difference in his day."

And yesterday was a first for Marissa as well.  In the afternoon, she
took a quick run to the nearby flower store to pick up some plants for
our backyard.

"It wasn't very busy, so that was good," she recounted.  "Waiting in
line is the worst.  The line is so much longer and more daunting,
since everyone is standing six feet apart."

She and Rodney set up the new haul of plants on the deck while I
prepared dinner.  She picked up some basil, cherry tomatoes, rosemary,
thyme, parsley, celery, and most exciting of all, a new lemon tree.

Rodney, still riding the high from a successful grocery trip in the
morning, was relentlessly helpful.  He helped Marissa pack soil around
the plants in new pots, stopping only when he tragically got a speck
of dirt lodged in his eye.

For dinner, I took a page from my French cooking class and prepared a
_Poulet Creme Champignons_, or a seared chicken breast in a creamy
mushroom pan sauce.

"It's beautiful," said Marissa snapping a photo of the finished
ensemble.

"You know what's weird?  It wasn't much work," I chuckled.  "It looks
amazing, but I spent most of the time just watching you guys work on
the plants out the window."

"Dude - ", I said turning to Rodney.  "What got stuck in your eye?
That looked like a big fiasco."

"Yeah!" replied Rodney.  "_wannna wanna dayys_," he said with a shrug.
That's his new seasonal indecipherable filler phrase, and from what we
can tell, it means _Yeah, what are you gonna do, right?_

After a short walk around the block, I put Rodney to bed.  "We're
going to try something a little different tonight, dude," I said as he
sat on the couch taking a few final swigs of milk.  "Everything is all
ready for you - I laid out your pajamas and put some toothpaste on
your toothbrush.  You're going to get yourself ready, then call me up
when you're ready for a story."

Rodney disappeared upstairs, and Marissa and I listened with amusement
to the thumping and rustling in his room.  Minutes later, Rodney's
small voice called me upstairs.

"Let's see," I said pacing into the bathroom for an inspection.
"Toothbrush is wet, there's some pee in your toilet.  Pajamas are on.
Dude I think you got everything - _A+_."

Rodney clapped his hands.

"Ope, but what about the pull-ups?" I said interrupting his victory
dance.  Rodney speedily lifted his shirt, flashing the waist band of
his new diaper.  The label peeking out of his pajama shorts read
_BACK_."

"OK, _A minus_.  The pull-ups are on backwards," I laughed.

Have a great day today, everyone.
