---
title: moving out
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Monday. I'm coming to you from a temporary
battle station at Canine Sports Zone, where our family is holding out
all day until we can move into our AirBNB for the week. Against my
better judgment, I spent the first hour here trying to get Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles working for Rodney, which led me to discover that
our home media library was unreachable. This led me down a rabbit hole
of debugging. While Rodney was waiting patiently beside me watching
YouTube videos, I dove into problem solving, pinging various expected
endpoints around our house.

It turns out that before leaving, I forgot to ask the guys not to unplug
anything upstairs. They must have unplugged my datacenter wall, which
rebooted the network. Everything is set up to return gracefully except
for the media server. That machine is still on old hardware which
requires you to press a tiny white button on the front of the panel.
There will be time to address that later. I'll probably call the guy and
talk him through where the button is, or it probably wouldn't be a very
big deal to swing by the house later and sneak up stairs. Today they are
just sanding, so no toxic fumes to contend with just yet. The way my
head works, now that I know the problem and have a solution, I can move
on with my day.

So needless to say, this is a weird week for us. Our Madison stay-cation
has been on the calendar for about a month, and we've been chipping away
at the work all along, using our new spiffy color coordinated index card
whiteboard system. First came cleaning the basement. We did a full sweep
for garbage, which included tearing down Marissa's old resin tent. While
the basement was briefly empty, we opportunistically squeezed in a
weekend to pour some concrete and paint, as this would become Marissa's
new art studio after we moved back. Understandably, she gets restless if
she doesn't have a place to paint - much like I start to get snippy if I
don't have a reliable Internet connection.

Next came the actual moving. We started with the things we don't use
every day - out of season clothes, rugs, extra furniture, books,
decorations. While our house started to look emptier, things were still
easy to cope with. One funny thing we notices is how much more dog hair
accumulates on the floor without the rugs.

This past week, things started to get a little more serious. We broke
down Rodney's changer. We packed up our bed frame and started sleeping
with our mattress on the floor - which was way more uncomfortable than I
remember. Packed up our dining room chairs and bar stools. It's amazing
how tired you get in your own house without a place to sit down and
focus, or even a place to change a diaper without bending over.

Yesterday was the climax of the work. We started things off with a nice
slow breakfast. I made a Dutch baby, and drinking plenty of coffee we
got to packing the rest of the house up. After heating up leftover
salmon for lunch, I packed up the kitchen. I cleaned the fridge, wiped
down the counters, and basically did the equivalent of an entire week of
kitchen chores in one day.

Marissa spent most of the day evicting her art studio from Miles room.
After returning home, she'll have a change to spread out and take up the
whole basement, but for now, her whole art career is pact in gallon
sized ziploc bags, leaning against the wall of the basement corner.

We taped plastic loosely around the computers. We bagged our clothes,
emptying our closets and piling everything on the floor in the basement.
"I'm doing my best to keep things organized down there, I know you have
a system," said Marissa while making trips.

"Oh the system has broken down," I laughed. "It's kind of starting to
look like Good Will down there, just stick things where there's room and
try to leave room for us to walk around down there."

We packed our bags for the week, stacking everything we'd need by the
front door. I packed a miniature kitchen, grabbing my peeler, immersion
blender, potato masher, and Dutch oven.

Marissa and I declared victory last night at midnight. With the TV
sitting on the floor and with nothing else in our living room except for
our blue couch, I poured some tequila and we enjoyed some brief TV time
before bed. Before turning in for the night, we scooted the TV and the
couch into the kitchen.

The work continued this morning. Marissa packed the car while I readied
Rodney. I changed him, and he helped me roll up his air mattress and
gather his toiletries. *Woah, look!* he said in wonder, wandering around
our empty, cavernous house.

After moving our mattress into the bathroom, we were officially ready to
leave. We ceremoniously tore the final project card in half before
hitting the road. I nodded off in our packed car with Ziggy in my lap
while Marissa barreled down the highway.

We were feeling tired, but also grateful, and to be honest, we're proud
that we kept everything under control. Rodney is in good spirits, the
dogs are comfortably sleeping in their crates. "Not only did we pack
everything up on time, but we didn't have to stay up all night," boasted
Marissa. "And we cleaned our basement," I added.

Sometime last night, Marissa asked me if I was still excited about our
floors. "It's funny," I replied. "I forgot all about the floors. I was
just so focused on moving everything." I'll probably get excited when I
see them.

In a few moments, I'll take Rodney out to go pick up some donuts while
Marissa works on her mural. I have the day off today, and now that the
craziness of this morning is winding down, this Monday is starting to
feel like a day off.

As always, thanks for stopping by. I'm looking forward to writing on the
road throughout our stay-cation in Madison. See you tomorrow, readers,
and happy floor week!

Oh, and if you see my younger sister Sarah around, do wish her a happy
belated birthday.

