---
title: filming bread, a poop technicality, and real world algebra
banner: 2020-09-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  And happy _dinsdag_.  I hope today you'll
join me in welcoming the underwhelming month of September.  Here's to
taking your favorite fall hoodie out of retirement and stubbornly
wearing it, even though we all know it will be slightly too warm for
hoodies all month.

September is a cool month, isn't it?  I'm getting in the mood to watch
the seasons change.  I can probably start drinking oktoberfest beer
too.  The way I see it, COVID is going to ensure we feel even more
cooped up than we did this summer.  We're in for a maddeningly long
and drab winter.  Let's enjoy the brief and lovely season of fall
while we can.

So I finished a loaf of bread yesterday.  And for this one, I've
filmed myself performing each step of the process - mixing, kneading,
shaping, and baking.  I was planning on putting the clips together in
a very straight forward video recipe for others to follow along.

In trying to make my own recipe video, I have a new appreciation for
those who film food.  Filming food is difficult.  It turns out that
the sound of gas escaping fresh, wet dough as it smacks against our
kitchen counter top is not as flattering for the camera as it is in
person.  On camera, it sounds disgusting, actually.  Add to that the
churning of our dishwasher, Miles crying, Marissa and I having loud
conversations that echo through the main floor of the house.  My pale
hairy forearms in crystal clear focus over the backdrop of slightly
less pale bread dough.  I knew this video wouldn't be pretty, but
looking at the raw footage, it's already a far cry from the other kind
of artisinal bread videos you can find on YouTube and Instagram that
are put to quiet, contemplative music and look like they were filmed
in a luxury apartment yoga studio.

I wrapped up the final shot last night - the one where I pull the pan
out of the oven, gently tap it free with a towel, and leave the
finished loaf aside to cool.  The _reveal_ - arguably, the most
important shot.

I watched the oven timer tick down, standing at the ready, donning an
oven mitt and a towel.  My phone was resting on the lid of my open
microwave, pinned underneath my kosher salt dispenser so the camera
would point down.  I checked the camera focus one last time.

The oven timer rang.  I delicately fished out the red hot loaf pan
from the back of the oven and set it down, giving the camera time to
adjust focus.

Next was the turn - a move I've done dozens of times off camera
successfully.  I covered the pan in a towel and flipped it.  It didn't
budge.

I switched to less graceful hand position, gripping the loaf pan with
two hands and shaking it.  The loaf dropped downward, hitting the top
of my oven with a clang.  The rest of the video is me, flustered and
giggling, fumbling to turn the piping hot loaf right side up.

I showed Marissa the clip in the basement.  My face was red from
laughter.  But still, even after all the disgusting sounds,
disorienting camera angles, and awkward loaf pan dismounts, it came
out absolutely perfect.  And looking at the picture, you would have
never known that the preparation of this bread was so fraught with
peril.  Who knows - maybe the awkward, fumbling footage makes a good
argument that truly _anyone_ could throw together bread this good.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-01/bread.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 01 bread" src="/images/2020-09-01/bread.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Order from
chaos.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  I had a few meetings in the
morning and worked through the afternoon, joining Marissa and Rodney
in the kitchen for lunch to heat up some leftovers and make some
spaghetti.  As I was cleaning up from lunch, Rodney pointed to
something in the toilet.

"Hey," he said, "what's this?"  He pointed to a small fleck in the
plastic potty.

"Is that... poop?" said Marissa, squinting.

"Poop in the botty... _wanna wanna_... so I get a poop prize?" said
Rodney, waving his arms, trying to present the argument that was in
his head.  Marissa and I began to laugh.

"But is it really poop?" I said.  I leaned in for a closer look.
"It's kind of hard to tell though.  This is a close call, we'll have
to discuss."

After quick aside to deliberate, Marissa and I decided to credit
Rodney with the poop.  On a poop technicality, Rodney fished out his
very first prize from the poop treasure chest.  He selected a rubbery
t-rex red dinosaur.

For whatever reason, these rubbery dinosaur toys bring out the
rascally side of Rodney.  Directing him with his hand like a puppet,
Rodney and the dinosaur like to pull pranks on us.  He'll slide my
phone out of my pocket or steal things off the counter.  Red dinosaur
and Rodney swiped a Tupperware lid from the cabinet and ran off into
the living room.

For dinner, we made chili.  We have a recipe we like to do that
involves baking a chili underneath a layer of cornbread and cheese,
like a casserole.  Rodney and Marissa helped me throw it together
after returning from getting groceries.

After dinner as we were fighting off food comas, Marissa talked about
her pressing art supply situation.  "I'm starting to run down my last
stash of 91% isopropyl alcohol," she reminded me.  "Do you think we
could figure out how to dilute the other bottles?"

So the situation is this: 91% isopropyl alcohol is concentration she
likes to paint with, but it's hard to find.  But she has a few bottles
of 99% lying around.  We needed to figure out how much water she had
to add to dilute it to 91%.

"Let's see if we can figure this out," I said, grabbing a piece of
paper and pencil.  "I need something to help me stay awake after
eating all that chili."

The tricky part of the word problem was that the percentage was by
weight.  Which meant the final target concentration of 91% was also
relative to the amount of water added.

Two sheets of paper later, I finally had it.  Two equations expressing
91% and 99% in terms of _B_, the initial total mass of the solution in
the bottle and, _w_, the amount of water added to dilute it.  The
trick was to substitute one equation into the other and solve for x.
The substitution trick - remember that one?

"Would this be fun for you to turn into code?" asked Marissa.

"Are you kidding me," I laughed.  "That would be awesome.  We could
even turn it into a dilution calculator for your website and let
people pick their initial and target concentrations."

I remember my less enthusiastic classmates from high school griping
about how algebra isn't really applicable to life.  In hindsight, they
were right - you don't often get to use algebra to solve a real world
problem.  You can get on just fine without it.  But when real world
algebra _does_ come up?  Oh boy, is that exciting.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day, everyone.
