---
title: spiders, fescue to the rescue, and orange dumplings
banner: 2020-08-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope the weekend is treating you well so far.
Here's to fresh coffee, leftover bacon, and stroopwafels to make
waking up a little easier.

Madison has a lot of mosquitos during the summer.  The upside of that
is every now and then, we get to see some really cool wildlife further
up the food chain.  A few weeks ago I noticed a garden spider setting
up shop outside our kitchen door.  She's relocated her web a few times
already, almost like she could overhear Marissa sharing her very
justified concerns.

"The web is at my eye level," said Marissa anxiously.  "And the other
side is held up by the potted plant?  The wind is going to knock it
into my face, and I'm going to freak out."

I like spiders, but I'll also admit that the sensation of walking into
a web, or feeling legs scamper across your neck is unnerving.  Which
is why I was grateful that my spider friend took the initiative and
voluntarily scooted the web further off the deck.

Taking a good picture of a spider poses a challenge.  With the subject
hanging in mid air on a translucent web, it's hard to get the camera
to focus in the right spot.  This is the best I could do last night.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-23/spiderbro.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 23 spiderbro" src="/images/2020-08-23/spiderbro.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Trigger warning: big hair spider</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Calling it a "garden spider" is just a guess.  I'm having a hard time
identifying this one.  If you're brave enough to zoom in on this
beast, I'd appreciate any help.  Her legs are striped, her body is a
rusty red & brown pattern, and her web is the large spanning type with
the pretty design.

_Sip_.  Sufficiently creeped out?  That's fair.  Let's talk about the
weekend instead.  We've had a pretty relaxing weekend so far.  It
almost feels unfair that I have off Monday as well, but I'm not
complaining.  It's not like I picked the day I'd be returning to work.
Blame my baby for the timing.

We've spent a lot of time outside this weekend.  Having the pool
filled with water and ready to rock at a moment's notice is a great
incentive for working outside with Rodney.  Yesterday, wanting to take
one more stab at improving the grass coverage in the backyard before
the summer came to a close, Marissa asked Rodney and I to put down a
bag of fescue seed.  And thus was born the catch phrase _fescue to the
rescue_.

Rodney and I knew the drill.  We flipped each bag of dirt in to the
wheel barrow, tossed it with a few scoops of grass seed, and threw it
around the yard on the bare spots.  Most of the seed made it to the
ground, but Rodney, convinced that it was best to roll in the dirt and
seed after application, picked up some in his hair and clothes.

When we were finished, Rodney cleaned off in the pool while I enjoyed
a cigar.  "And a beer wouldn't be terrible either," I said flagging
Marissa down like a waitress.

Marissa joined me outside with her laptop just in time to tune into
Jordan and Vanessa's live streamed wedding ceremony.

"I feel so bad for them," said Marissa.  "It must be hard taking
pictures with masks, keeping distant from each other."

"It's inconvenient, but something about the masks and the sparse
church adds an intriguing eeriness to it," I said.  "These pictures
are probably going to be really cool to look back on."

It was a beautiful ceremony, but I felt bad for Jordan and Vanessa.  I
choose to believe that everyone like them who is getting robbed of a
special milestone during all of this will get their time back with
interest.  It didn't feel right to watch my beloved friend and
roommate get married over YouTube, but what else can you do?  Get
married now - we'll celebrate later.

After the wedding, I got started on making dinner.  Dinner was kind of
a disaster, so let me break this down for you.  Last Friday I baked
five large yams and left them in the fridge, planning on turning them
into hash for dinner when we returned from the biergarten.  Cooking
after happy hour never works out, and I should have anticipated the
afternoon sun and crisp beer lulling me into suggesting takeout food.
Marissa placed an order for Burrito Drive on our way home.

"I'll make the hash tomorrow," I said, assuring myself.

Whether it was the extra day in the fridge that caused this, or it was
just a bad idea to begin with, the yams were not in shape for hash.
Removing the skin with a pairing knife, they were so soft and bruised
that I was sure I wouldn't survive being cut into cubes and fried.

So I pivoted, deciding to mash the potatoes together and turn them
into sweet potato dumplings.  I added two eggs, a few heaping scoops
of Greek yogurt, and a squirt of honey.  And adding one cup of flour
at a time I was on my way.

I finished my bag of flour.  The orange puree, now completely filling
the mixing bowl, was still a sticky mess.  With a huff, I scooped half
of the congealed mess into the garbage can, wiped off my fingers, and
reached for a new bag of flour.

I was feeling angry about wasting so much flour, and I unconsciously
took out my rage on the dough, kneading with tough and short punches.
I beat the dough into submission and angrily sliced the tube into
dumplings.  I would boil these little orange dumplings and add them to
bacon and vegetable soup.

"It's not bad," said Marissa, sensing I was upset.  "The soup was a
good idea."

"Thanks," I said wearily rubbing the back of my neck.  "I'm more just
disappointed that I lost my temper.  Thanks for hanging with Rodney
outside."

Rodney aimlessly jabbed at the tart, rubbery orange dumpling on his
plate.  He reached for another slice of bread instead.

After dinner, Marissa took me outside to show off what her and Rodney
finished.  They had dug out an overgrown corner of dirt in our
driveway and redid it with rocks and pavers.  Rodney happily tagged
along, playing in the big dirt pile with his toy excavators.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-23/before-after.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 23 before after" src="/images/2020-08-23/before-after.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Corner pavers: before and after</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney also found a worm, which he used as a conversation starter with
a lady who was walking her dog.  Watching out the window, I could tell
from her body language that she did not share Rodney's enthusiasm for
half dead worms.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-23/worm.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 23 worm" src="/images/2020-08-23/worm.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>If this
kid put a worm in your face while you were out on a walk, what would
you do?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Marissa offered to put Rodney to bed.  I appreciated the extra time to
recover from a rough dinner.

"Are you sure?" I pressed.  "You were with him all afternoon?"

"Yeah I got him," said Marissa.  "I'm in a good mood because I cleaned
the fish tank today."

I laughed.  "So that's a good indicator for how you're feeling at any
given time?"

"Yes," said Marissa.  "That's always a safe bet."

It's funny how your mood gets tethered to physical things, like a
clean fish tank or how good dinner tasted.  Thanks for stopping by
today.  Have a wonderful Sunday, everyone.
