---
title: woodman's'ed, playing outside, and the bears game
banner: 2020-10-09.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  Happy Friday.  I'm grateful to be here, and
I couldn't be happier to head into a weekend.  By us in Madison it's
supposed to get up to eighty degrees today.  Being a bigger fan of
fall weather, I have mixed feelings about that.  After weeks of
perfect hoodie weather, it felt weird to throw on a pair of shorts and
a t-shirt again.  But nevertheless, we're going to just treat today
like it's summer.  After work, we'll hang out outside, walk to the
biergarten, and enjoy a picnic by the lake.

Last night, Marissa and I huddled around the computer to throw
together a grocery list.

"How about, like, turkey club sandwiches.  Maybe some crispy bacon and
pickles?" I suggested as the computer mouse skidded around the
Woodman's website.

"Oh that's good," said Marissa.  "Can we get some fruit too?  Some
pineapple, and cantaloupe?"

I leaned back in my chair.  "Pineapple... cantaloupe... and what
else."

"And you already checked to see if they have pick-up times for
tomorrow?" asked Marissa.

I furrowed my brow, leaning forward to check another tab.  "Shoot!" I
exclaimed.  "Nothing.  No slots available for tomorrow."

Marissa groaned.  "We've been _Woodman's'ed_ again."

To be _Woodman's'ed_ is our invented word that describes how it feels
to make plans around having specific food in the house, and
subsequently watch those plans implode.  Trying a new recipe with
pork?  Woodman's was out of pork, as well as all four of the backups
you selected.  Looking forward to bringing sandwiches to the
biergarten for a quaint Friday afternoon picnic after work?  Next
available pickup is Saturday afternoon.

I sighed and closed the browser window.  "Well," I said, getting up
out of my chair.  "Let's see what kind of picnic we can manage with
what we got."

Marissa and I stared blankly into the fridge.  "We still have some
cheese, so we can just do grilled cheeses," I suggested.  "And we can
cut up those bell peppers."

"There's not a lot of bell peppers left," said Marissa.  "Can I add
them to something with corn, beans, and onions?  Like a salsa?"

"Sounds good to me," I said.  "And then we'll just pad things with
goldfish crackers - always a solid plan."

"I hate it when we get _Woodman's'ed_," said Marissa.  "I wonder if
they're just busier because of all the new COVID cases in Wisconsin."

I try not to follow the COVID news as obsessively as I did this past
summer.  At a certain point, the only thing it was accomplishing was
making me more anxious.  We already never go anywhere.  I haven't set
foot in a real grocery store in months, let alone a real building that
wasn't my house.  But still, the last time I saw a map charting the
spread in the US, Wisconsin was bright red, like an infected sore.  We
know things are bad right now, and I don't need to know the specifics.

_Sip_.  All things considered, we had a great day yesterday.
Yesterday, as Marissa and I commiserate about tired we were, I held on
for dear life knowing that we had a football game to look forward to.

After finishing out the work day, I joined Rodney outside.  He talked
me into a round of random backyard sports.  We played baseball,
basketball, and finally a game that he just referred to as _regular
ball_.

Marissa returned from her afternoon jog.  With Miles on my lap, we sat
together on the back porch and snapped some pictures.

"Of course, I can't get one where you're all smiling," laughed
Marissa.  Photographing two squirming boys on my lap was like an
unsolvable math problem.  Either Miles was looking away with his hands
in his moth, or Rodney was making a silly face.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-09-family-pic.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 09 family pic" src="/images/2020-10-09-family-pic.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Almost a good family picture.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Marissa ordered a pizza, and at last, we made our way to the couch to
enjoy the game.  We sent Rodney to bed after the first half.

"Can I keep watching the Bears game?" asked Rodney.

"No, dude, it's time for bed," said Marissa.

"We'll let you know what happens," I added.  "Plus, this is the part
of the game where I just nervously clean the house, anyway."

"It's true," laughed Marissa.  "OK, say goodnight to dad, then go
upstairs and put your jammies on."

We relocated to the dining room.  Between commercial breaks, I cleaned
our fridge, stove, and microwave.  In the end, the Bears were finally
able to fire things up and snatch a close victory.

"A commanding 1 point victory," joked my dad in our family's chat.

Since I'm a newer football fan, last night's game was the first time
I've seen Tom Brady play.  His final drive was a weird one.  Just
needing to get within field goal range, the Bears' defense shut him
down.  But apparently he lost track of what down it was and tried to
stay on the field longer.  The last shot of the game was a confused
Tom Brady holding up four fingers to the refs, then quickly jogging to
the locker room out of embarrassment.

It was a fun game.  I went into it with low expectations, hoping for
once to just _not_ be embarrassed during a prime time game.  But for
the first time all season, our defense was fun to watch, and our
offense looked pretty decent.  And for the first time in his career,
Tom Brady lost against the Chicago Bears.  "The bears just need an
_average_ quarterback to be a good team," a mantra commonly passed
around on Bears twitter, may have been proven correct last night.

Have we had enough football talk in this journal entry?  Probably.
When I discover a new interest, I tend to go overboard in talking
about it.

So that's what I got today.  I'll see you all sometime Saturday
afternoon.  Tomorrow, the priorities are as follows: (1) brunch, (2) a
journal entry, and (3) hanging out in the studio with Marissa while
she waits around for her virtual art show.

Speaking of which, final plug before we part ways.  Check out
Marissa's virtual art show this Saturday and Sunday.  For more
information, just click on the "Events" tab on her website,
[astuaryart.com].  Hope to see you there.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Friday, everyone.

[astuaryart.com]: https://www.astuaryart.com
