---
title: partying, my plastic pitcher, and ping-pong
banner: 2020-09-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Labor day.  I hope you took the
opportunity to use the extra day in our weekend to catch up on sleep,
or at least do something that you enjoy.

We're operating on lazy holiday hours this morning.  No getting out of
bed until at least 9:30, and even then no labor of any kind will be
even considered until lunch time.  I'm grateful to have a morning to
take it easy.  Marissa and I stayed up pretty late last night
partying.  I use the term "partying" loosely of course.  Our rendition
of a labor day weekend rager is just putting the kids to bed, hanging
out in the art studio, and drinking beer.  After we had finally
emerged from the basement to go to bed, we were distracted by a last
minute game of ping-pong.  More beer and ping-pong thwarted any chance
of a reasonable bedtime, and when we finally finished playing, we
forgot about bedtime all together and just started a movie instead.

This morning, I collected Rodney from his room and put him to work
helping with my morning routine.  He fed the dogs and put a few dishes
away.  He finished his breakfast in the time it took me to brew a pot
of coffee, and after we took a cozy corner of the couch and watched
some water slide videos.

Water slide videos were his second choice after Blippi.  I appreciated
his willingness to humor we with a throwback.  Sitting on the couch
with him under a blanket watching laid back GoPro footage of various
European water slides took me back to a much simpler time when we only
had one child to worry about and "corona" was just a beer that I drink
on vacation.

_Sip_.  The coffee tastes good today.  Yesterday I ran a cycle of
de-scaling solution, which is supposed to purge all that chalky
calcium build-up from the system.  Doing it on a monthly basis, I have
a pretty good system now.  I've even drawn a thick black line with a
sharpie on our plastic pitcher, marking the correct level of water.  I
have a hand drawn line at 32 ounces for making de-scaling solution, 3
cups for making sticky rice, and one marking 548 grams for making
bread.  I aspire to one day be able to measure everything with that
pitcher.  Why even stop at water?  I should have a marking for coffee
beans, dog food, the appropriate amount of milk in a bowl of cereal,
or perhaps even the recommended amount of toothpaste for my brush.  I
kid, of course, but Marissa teases me for my weird defaulting
preference for this clear plastic pitcher.  We joke that it's kind of
like the pig character from _Secret Life of Pets_ - the one that is
covered in ink from being used as practice at a tattoo parlor.

So happy labor day, everyone.  What are we eating today?  In the last
leg of meal planning, I forgot to account for a classic grilled food
to make today.  We were faced with a tough decision.  Either we brave
the grocery store on a holiday weekend afternoon, or make due with
whatever is in the freezer.  We're going with the latter.  The plan is
to use some backup frozen ground beef to make burgers, and Marissa
will pick up a bag of chips and bag of hamburger buns from Target to
pad things.

As I write, Rodney has lost interest in YouTube and has instead taken
to chasing a ping-pong ball around the room.  Ping-pong continues to
be the seasonal distraction in our home.  The more we play, the harder
and harder it gets to hide how competitive I am about ping-pong.  I
didn't know I was such a stickler for the rules.  As Marissa and I
scrimmaged last night, my pedantic nature kicked in.

"What was wrong with that one?" asked Marissa after I caught her serve
and rolled it back across the table.

"A legal serve is paddle, table, table," I said.  "It has to hit your
side of the table immediately before it hits mine."

"Why is that important?" she asked.

"Well, because otherwise you could just smash every serve as hard as
you wanted and make it impossible for the other person to score," I
replied.

"But we're not even keeping score," she laughed.

I channeled my inner Walter Sobchak.  "_Has the whole world gone
crazy?  Am I the only one around here who gives a shit about the
rules?_"

We continued playing.  Marissa chopped at the ball midair, sending it
sailing across the table.  It missed my paddle by an inch.

"Ah, well that would be my point," she said.

"Uh... _nope dayss_," I replied, mimicking Rodney.

"Yeah-huh," insisted Marissa.  "If you swing at it while it's going
out of bounds, that's my point."

"No, I would actually have to hit it," I said.

"Ehhh, I'm pretty sure it's my point if you swing for it," said
Marissa, digging in.  She wheeled over to the computer to consult the
Internet.

"That _can't_ be the rule," I continued.  "If _intent_ had anything to
do with it, you would need some kind of ping-pong referee to watch
each ball and judge if I _intended_ to swing at it or not.  What if my
arm just moved that way from momentum?"

"Oh _momentum_," sneered Marissa.  "Wow this website is ugly.  But it
has all the rules."  Her index finger flicked the scrollwheel, and we
scanned the webpage with our eyes.  We spent a few minutes silently
reading.

"I think you're right," said Marissa.

"Of course, we can make our own house rules," I said.  "I like rules
that err on the side of keeping the game going.  Like I've always
played it that if the ball is going out of bounds, you can choose to
keep it in play and volley it back."

Marissa got up from her chair.  "There are way more rules to ping-pong
than I thought," she said tiredly.  "I literally thought the only rule
was just _hit it back_."

"NOPE DAYSSS," I interrupted.  "It's really complicated.  There's lots
of rules, and I care deeply about all of them because you married a
man-child."  We laughed.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Monday, everyone.
