---
title: scripts, baseball, ciabatta bread, and walks
banner: 2020-04-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  Today is a good day to
celebrate the halfway point of the week.  Perhaps a walk around the
neighborhood in the drizzling rain is in order.  Or what about a brief
nap on the couch during lunch?

My work started doing this thing called _well-being Wednesdays_,
reserving the middle of the week for self care and creativity.  We're
encouraged to avoid scheduling meetings on Wednesday, instead using
the time to read, learn, and experiment with things you wouldn't
normally have time for.  And I don't see why I can't pass the
sentiment on to you, reader.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a pretty good day.  Remember how in the morning
I was hemming and hawing about whether or not to write a script for
the work we were doing?  Well I ended up sinking a few hours into
writing that script.  And feeling a profound urgency to buy back the
time I spent writing it, I rushed it out the door.  And by the time I
ran it a few times, I realized that I didn't study the requirements
carefully enough and messed up some of the data we were moving.

In a funny way, yesterday's writing kind of foreshadowed the outcome.
I did, after all, joke that it would take more time to clean up the
mess it would make after it broke the first time.  So the cynical
generalization held true, and at least I can hang my hat on that
accomplishment.

We paused on the work, and I shifted focus to the more administrative
side of my work life.  Marissa finally got a day scheduled for her
induced labor, which is now this coming Monday, making this my final
week of work before a long sixteen week paternity leave.  Seeing that
on our family calendar was a bit of a wake up call.  I still had to
set up my work calendar, close out my assigned tickets, modify the
on-call schedule, and finish documenting my projects for the team to
carry forward this summer.

At the halfway point in the day, I made my way downstairs to the
kitchen.  I had started a loaf of bread the day before, and it was
time to move the dough into the proofing stage.  I made this batch
into a ciabatta, stretching it out into a long oval shape onto some
well-floured plastic wrap.

As the bread baked in the oven, I joined Marissa and Rodney outside on
the porch.  Rodney was practicing baseball with Marissa.

"Dada - we need you to weigh in on something," said Marissa as I
leaned onto the porch railing.  "Is my pitching good enough to hit?"

Marissa lobbed the ball to Rodney, who swung the plastic bad, twirling
on his heels.  The ball hit the fence behind him and rolled to the
ground.

"Well, I think it was in his strike zone," I said.  "But he's a little
kid, his strike zone is pretty small.  He actually might have an
easier time hitting it if you throw it faster."

Marissa made a gesture with her hand, sending Ollie over to the ball.
He obediently pushed it back to her with his nose.  Marissa lobbed the
ball again.  Rodney swung the bat and made solid contact, sending a
line drive that struck the side of the shed with a loud _crack_.

"Nice swing, dude," I said.  "You crushed that one."

"He can hit pretty far," said Marissa squinting up at me.  "We might
have to start worrying about the neighbors house."

The oven timer rang, and we headed inside to enjoy lunch.  The
ciabatta loaf was probably our best batch yet.  And do you know what's
the best part of homemade bread?  It's completely within your right to
effectively ruin it by turning it into one giant party style PB&J.

Marissa looked hungrily add the sandwich while I set it up on the
cutting board and wiped it with peanut butter.  "Do you want some
_mustard_?" I asked.  "I know from the other night, you really like
mustard."

We ate lunch, and I finished out the work day while Rodney napped.
When he was ready to come out of his room, we suited up to take a walk
around the neighborhood and drop off that pesky mis-delivered letter
that has been sitting on my desk.

Rodney and I headed outside.  He dragged his green scooter out of the
shed, kicking it behind me.  "When did you learn how to use the
scooter by yourself, dude?" I asked.  Rodney shrugged, and continued
coasting up the sidewalk.  The last time I had seen his green scooter,
he needed me to stand on the tail and help him push, so you can
imagine how surprised I was to see him now autonomously coasting.  I
really hate these sudden, lurching developmental milestones.

Rodney and I slowly made our way up the block.  And even though our
errand was straight forward, he was determined to squeeze as much
adventure into it as possible.  Rodney shouted over the street to
neighbors has we passed, yelling "Hey guys!  Check out my skateboard!
WE have a letter!"

Rodney also took the opportunity to beef up his growing stick
collection.  But with so many sticks to carry, riding the scooter was
difficult.  So I carried the sticks, and for the remainder of the walk
back to our house, I was Rodney's stick caddy.

About a block from our house, Rodney retrieved a small sprig of
branches.  It didn't have a hilt, nor a rifle handle - this was a
serious departure from his usual criteria for stick collecting.

"This one is for momma," he said gently handing me the branch.

"Nice one, dude," I said.  "She'll love it.  And I'm serious, she'll
probably cry too, so get ready for that."

We arrived home just as our pizza was delivered, and before sitting
down to eat, Rodney held his stick awarding ceremony.  Marissa put it
in a thin vase for the table.

"I think it actually looks pretty good," I said as we admired the
fixture.  "Rodney has a good eye."

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful Wednesday.
