---
title: cds, happy hour, and grill fails
banner: 2020-12-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  I hope you're well rested and
caught up on things.  I hope you have some fresh coffee at your side.
I hope you have just enough energy to stick it out until the holiday
break.

This morning underneath the familiar clattering of our living room
keyboard hums a CD burner, a staple of end of the year mixtape season.
I'm on the fourteenth copy.  Every few minutes, the disk tray pops
open.  I remove the disk, write "2020" on the front center with a
sharpie, and then seat it in a new clear disk jacket.  Beside the
sleeve of blank CD's and cases rests a neat stack of printed labels.
This year, that's where my job ends.  Marissa gently and graciously
confirmed my suspicions that last year's labels looked like crap.
They looked like crap because I, lacking a single crafty bone in my
body, cut and taped them all myself.  I mistakingly believed that my
crude handy work on the label would be a nice metaphor for the love
and attention that went into the audio, but it turns out that there's
already enough of that in a burned CD alone.  Handing somebody a
burned CD already screams _homemade_ - crooked cut paper and wrinkled
scotch tape is just beating a dead horse.

Still, you have to admit that CD's are great.  They are just magic
enough to be convenient, but still physical enough to enjoy all the
gratifying tactile sensations.  There's no "in the cloud" replacement
for the way a CD fragments light or the sound the disk tray makes when
it clicks into place.  I love how they look stacked together, and I
even love the clatter they make when you accidentally nudge your book
shelf and send them toppling.

_Sip_.  So here we are at Tuesday.  One day of the work week down in
the books, but how did it go?

I had a busy morning yesterday.  I managed to fit three and a half
trips around the pomodoro timer before I even thought about emerging
from my bedroom.  But when I finally did, we had our pick of all the
fridge leftovers collected from this weekend.  Things slowed down
after lunch.  My former boss from my old team invited me to a virtual
beer over zoom, and by coincidence that bumped into a second happy
hour to send off my current boss, who is moving to another team.

Over lunch, Marissa and I usually do a check in to plan the rest of
the day.  She usually asks me how busy my afternoon is show she can
plan around me.  Yesterday, I relished the opportunity to tell her
that I had two back to back happy hours to attend.

"I'm swamped," I said, barely keeping a straight face.  "First I gotta
drink a beer with Heath, then my team expects me to drink a beer to
send off Seth."

"Oh what a bummer," said Marissa, feigning sympathy.

From ripping through a sprawling to-do list of tasks and tickets in
the morning, to spending most of the afternoon in small talk over
drinks, it was a lopsided but satisfying workday.  And it was made
even better since I was off the hook for dinner.  Yesterday Marissa
treated us to barbecue pork skewers.  She urged me to capitalize on
the time off with a nap, but I instead threw on my winter coat and
stood beside her to take in the smell of the grill.  Looking much more
confident, she lit the coals, dumped them across the kettle, and wiped
the grate with clean oil before carefully laying the sticks of wadded
up meat across the flames.

"Ooh, I think these were a lot fattier," she said.  "I hope they don't
burn."  Marissa stood over the grill with concern as the fire below
hissed and cracked.  Minutes later, her poor skewers were engulfed in
flames.

"It will probably be fine," I said, sensing her growing disappointment
over the turn of events.  "I probably set you astray, maybe the fire
was too hot."

Sitting down to eat an hour later, I tried to ease her sense of defeat
with more platitudes.  "Grilling is like pizza," I said cutting into a
skewer.  "Even when it didn't go as planned, it's still a treat."
"Hey - that's what barbecue sauce is for," I continued.  "I don't mind
some gristle, and look - Rodney loves it."

Rodney paused from gobbling his pieces of pork to flash a toothy grin,
giving us a vivid view at all the pieces of char and gristle caught in
his teeth and stuck to his lips.  He looked the way the dogs do when
they sneak off to lick the grate and I don't catch them.

"Thanks," said Marissa.  "I'm just bummed.  But I have to
learn... it's my first grill fail.  Is it edible?"

"Of course it is, honey," I assured her.  "And the only reason you're
disappointed is because you utterly killed it last time.  If you made
this on your first try we'd be raving about it."

Marissa has a lot to learn about what makes a true _grill fail_,
because a barbecue pork skewer with just a little too much gristle
hardly belongs in my hall of grilling failure.

Let me tell you about the swordfish incident.  Marissa and I were just
married, and we embarked on our _staycation_ honeymoon in my tiny
apartment in Rockford.  Wanting to kick off our honeymoon in style, I
picked up a filet of swordfish from the grocery store.  Never mind
that it was twice as expensive as anything else I had grilled.  My new
bride deserved the best, and I would wine and dine her with my
exquisite taste in seafood, and at the same time impress her with my
mastery over fire.

It had rained the night before, and my tiny gas grill was soaked.  By
the time I got it lit, the propane flooded chamber flashed with a
bright orange flame.  I gave Marissa a cool, smouldering look,
pretending like my arm hairs weren't singed clean.  The pale hunk of
swordfish was still frozen, and it was so frozen that as it slowly and
painfully defrosted over the grill, the melted ice kept extinguishing
my fire and I had to light it several more times.  By the time I
served her the piece of expensive fish, the outside was barely cooked,
the inside was still frozen, and the whole plate faintly smelled like
gas.

"It's supposed to be served a little raw," I said.  Minutes into the
meal, I bit into ice, and I changed my tune to "maybe we should just
eat around the outside of it."

Then there was the hotdogs and hamburger incident.  We had my sister
over to our apartment, and I offered to grill some hotdogs and
hamburgers for us.  My hand formed patties immediately fell apart over
the fire, and while struggling to keep the ground beef together I
accidentally knocked half of our hot dogs off the grill and into the
dirt.  I didn't recover enough meat to make one hamburger, so we
shared the hot dogs and picked at a bowl of charred ground beef.

I hate to be so macho, but when it comes to grill fails, Marissa is
only a beginner.  She merely adapted the grill fail. I was born in it,
molded by it. I didn't grill something correctly until I was a man and
by then it was only blinding.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Tuesday everyone.
