---
title: my new chair, warm bed sheets, and flu shots
banner: 2020-10-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  How's your week going thus
far?  A mere hour into the morning, and I'm already out of breath.  My
new office chair came in the mail, and the "easy assembly" felt more
like I was wrestling a cat burglar into submission on the kitchen
floor.  But in my bathrobe armed with a tiny allen wrench, I rose
above it all, and got it done.  The new chair is at home in my
upstairs office.  But first, a tribute to my old chair.

Old chair - my uncharacteristically stylish, yet surprisingly
comfortable blue swivel chair.  Chair that I scored for free from my
mother in law and held onto for way longer than I expected to.  It may
not have had a cushion or arm rests, but it magically didn't need
them.  And the back came up just far enough to my back where I could
lean back and stretch when I felt tight.  Today, you are relieved of
duty; forever you will live in my heart.

Don't worry about blue chair.  He's retired to Marissa's art studio,
where he'll spend the rest of his days puttering around as a spare on
her smooth concrete floor.

Shopping for a chair was funny.  At one point I turned to reddit to
find a good recommendation for an office chair, but when most of the
top recommendations were in the _thousands_ range, I turned back.  It
left me wondering what I was missing out on.  Theoretically, if I
turned down a chair that was $2000 and instead bought one that was
$200, then I passed up on an opportunity to sit in something that was
_one hundred times better_.  I picture a chair that expensive as some
kind of magical orthopedic temple.  Like sitting on a cloud, or just
being held in the air gently by angels.

Not my speed.  I'm certainly not ready to become a thousand dollar
chair guy.  And this new chair is practically perfect, I have a
feeling I'm going to fall in love with sitting at my desk today.

_Sip_.  So how is your week going?  How are you feeling?  Are you
tired, or is the crisp fall weather giving you a second wind?  I slept
well last night.  We washed our bed sheets after finding some muddy
paw prints on my side of the bed.  Before you blame me, you should
know that we already found the culprit.  Ollie makes it a habit of
jumping up to my side so we can lick my pillow while I get ready for
the day.

"I'll wash the sheets today," said Marissa later in the afternoon.  I
cracked a smile.

"And don't worry - I'll get them in the dryer before... you
know... midnight," she said.  She was speaking from experience.  There
have been a few evenings in the past where we were stranded on the
couch well past our witching hour, waiting for our damp sheets to
finish up in the dryer.  And though that has become the subject of
some teasing, we had no such timing issues last night.  When we
slinked up to bed, our bed sheets were piping hot, like an early
morning McDonald's breakfast.  Ziggy barely let us make the bed before
she leapt into the warm comforting pile, peaking her nose out like she
couldn't make up her mind between running in circles or lying there
for hours.

So long story short, I slept well, and I'm feeling good today.  I hope
you're feeling good too.

Our warm bed sheets were the highlight of the day.  Our big outing was
walking across the street to the clinic to get our flu shots - or as
Rodney calls them, _a lil' poke_.

"Dada," said Rodney.  "The _lil' poke_ makes me _kinda' pretty_
nervous."

"Oh it's OK dude," said Marissa.  Yours aren't until tomorrow.  Today
is just mommy and daddy.  And we need you to come along for support."

"Also, because we can't leave you home alone with your brother," I
said.  "But if we _had_ to, we could probably get away with it, I mean
the clinic is only across the street."  Marissa chuckled.

We masked up, and headed out the door walking briskly along the side
walk against oncoming traffic.  As we waited at the light, Marissa
scanned with her eyes.

"Hey, this is our first outing as a family in a while," she said.

After we made our way across the busy street, Rodney took the
opportunity to burn off some energy, sprinting ahead of the pack with
his arms outstretched like a super hero.  He rejoined the back as we
walked up to the rotating clinic doors.

Rodney is fun to take places.  Starved for conversation, he'll chat up
everyone we pass with the confidence of somebody running for mayor.
Without hesitation, he invites people into his continually running
monologue.

"Oh, there's a police officer.  Mom look a police officer," said
Rodney.  The hospital security guard, who briefly crossed our side
walk to access a back door, glanced at Rodney.

"HI OFFICER - HI MR. POLICE OFFICER," called out Rodney.  The guard
gave him a sheepish wave and disappeared.

Once we were inside the clinic, everyone in the building was
_doctor_ - even the orderly who took our temperature at the door.
When we sat in the cramped office, Rodney filled the room with
questions.

As the day went on, Marissa and I mutually commiserated about our sore
arms.

"Is it OK to be a baby about how much these hurt?" she asked.

"Oh definitely," I sighed.  "Shots really suck.  Is it just me, or do
they hurt more as you get older?  I feel like someone ran over my
arm."

"Well, why did you get it in your right arm?  That's the one you use
more, it's probably a lot worse than it needs to be," she said.

"Does that matter?" I asked.  "And if it did, why did she leave it up
to me?  Why wouldn't she just say, 'which arm do you _not_ write
with?'"

Rodney's _lil' poke_ is later today.  He's still feeling _kinda
pretty_ nervous about it, but hopefully the mango smoothie we promised
afterwards can sweeten the deal.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day today.
