---
title: thanksgiving
banner: 2020-11-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everyone.  Or good morning.  Or good whatever time it is
on the planet I woke up on.  The nap I took this afternoon was
something so special, the best way I could describe it was
_otherworldly_.  I had the whole upstairs bed to myself.  With our
room fan blowing wildly over my head, the gentle wind felt like a cool
cotton blanket draped over my face.  The shades were open, but when I
woke up the sun had gone down, and all the light had emptied out of
the room.  Had I slept for hours?  Decades?  Centuries?  Did I wake up
in another dimension?

Before my nap, our small family sat down at the table for a humble
quarantine style Thanksgiving dinner.  We had spent all morning
finishing up the sides in the kitchen.  With the oven on full blast
all morning, I was already sweating through my nice outfit.

"Why did you put on a nice outfit?" laughed Marissa.  My choice of
nice jeans, dress socks, and a button down shirt drew funny looks from
my pajama clad family.  Due to the lack of socialization today, even
baby Miles stuck to his more casual green dinosaur romper.

"I was just feeling excited about Thanksgiving," I laughed.  "And I
really wanted to wear this shirt."

To be honest, I wasn't even sure why I dressed up for a holiday in
which we weren't going anywhere or seeing anyone.  But my subconscious
intentions all became abundantly clear to me after dinner when I
changed right back into pajamas.  You know that glorious feeling when
you get home from a long trip or a big occasion and you first drop
your nice outfit to the floor?  I don't think I've had that sensation
all year, and it could have been what truly catapulted me into the
most peaceful nap I've ever taken.

_Sip_.  How was your Thanksgiving?  How many helpings?  How many
waves?  We've been chipping away at our mountain of leftovers all day.
Speaking of food, let me talk you through the spread we had.

Last night I rinsed the turkey off in our sink and patted it dry with
a towel.  I would go on to season the bird and liberally apply
rosemary shallot butter underneath the loosened skin.  Inside, I
stuffed the bird with tied bunches of parsley, poultry herbs,
shallots, and lemon wedges.  Looking over my shoulder at a Martha
Stewart YouTube video, I tied the bird and slid it into the fridge.

From a separate pair of wings, I made a simple turkey stock.  We put
the turkey stock in the gravy, and with a little bit of convincing I
corrupted Marissa into adding it to her Grandma's stuffing recipe.
Meanwhile, Marissa twisted and turned around me in the kitchen like a
dancer, assembling sweet potato casserole, corn casserole, and
stuffing.  Marissa also baked a blueberry pie and an apple pie, and by
far her Sports Center highlight would have to be the impressive
crosshatch pattern on top.

It's honestly kind of strange how well Marissa and I work around each
other in the kitchen.  We almost never bump into each other.  We never
get in each other's way.  We barely use utensils the other person
needs.  Whatever mysterious natural instinct helps schools of fish
stay together in open water must also be what prevents us from
colliding into each other in the kitchen.

Meanwhile, Rodney spent the entire morning watching _Blaze_ on the
living room couch.  He casually shuffled into the dining room.
"What's for lunch, Dada?" he said.  I imagine he was expecting a
peanut butter and jelly sandwich or a little bowl of mac n cheese.

"Take a look, dude," I said, hoisting him up by his armpits.  His eyes
scanned the neatly stacked plates and spread of turkey, stuffing,
corn, green beans.

"Wow!" he said.  "How did you make all this?"

"Dude, what do you think we've been doing in here all morning?" I
laughed.

"I want _those_," said Rodney.  He pointed to a long plate of sliced
cranberry sauce.

"Sure thing, dude," I said, collecting food on Rodney's plate.  Per
his request, I flopped two whole slices of cranberry sauce on the
side.  Moments later, Rodney regretted his decision.  He slid his
plate back to Marissa.  There was a tiny nibble in one of the slices
of cranberry.

"I don't like these," he said.  "These are _pretty gross_."

Marissa and I burst into laughter.  "What do they taste like?" I
asked.

"They taste like... _spicy_ sauce," said Rodney rubbing his chin
thoughtfully.

Like Rodney, I'm sure we've all had this seminal realization about
cranberry sauce.  I'm sure as kids we were all once lured in by its
shiny, wriggly beauty, thinking we were biting into a strange wedge of
homemade jello or a giant grape flavored fruit snack.

"They're kind of weird thought, aren't they?" I said to Marissa.  "It
really doesn't make sense."

"Yeah you're right," said Marissa.  "I like them, but I don't get it
either.  They're cold.  They're served just right out of the can."

We teased Rodney as we ate our food.  I kept the rest of the slices on
a plate beside Rodney.  "These are waiting for you when you're done,
dude," I said.

Moments ago, I put Rodney to bed.  He and Marissa stayed up past his
bedtime putting up Christmas lights.  It was too late for a bedtime
story, but I wanted to make sure we still got in our question time.

"Today was Thanksgiving," I explained.  "It's a day where we take time
to remember the things we're thankful for."

"OK, OK," said Rodney, nodding along.

"Like for example - I'm thankful for momma.  I'm thankful to have a
smart, cool son like you.  I'm thankful for how much baby Miles likes
to smile.  I'm thankful for two nice puppies.  What are you Thankful
for?"

Rodney sat up in bed.  "Open your mouth," he instructed.  I sheepishly
opened my mouth.  Rodney extended his index finger and reached into my
jaw.  I felt his finger nail stab the very top of the roof of my
mouth, raking it back towards my gums.

"Do you know what that is?" said Rodney, pulling his hand out of my
mouth.  He wiped his finger on my shirt sleeve.  "That's your
_skeleton_.  It's inside of you."

I'm not thankful for that moment.  Someone else's finger raking
against the roof of your mouth is among the worst sensations I've ever
felt.  But I am thankful to have a son like Rodney who never fails to
surprise me.  Even if I didn't love with all of my heart, I would
still appreciate having him around just for his ability to surprise
me.

And I'm thankful for you, reader.  At the time of writing this, I'm
over 458 straight days and 551 thousand words into this daily journal
project.  I'm touched by people like you who care enough to follow
along through good days and bad days, days where I feel depressed and
days where I feel hopeful.  Today I feel grateful.  If you haven't
noticed, routines are important to me, and I guess at the core of it,
I'm honored to be part of your routine.

Sending love from the Recker family.  Socially distant for now, but
never alone.  Have a happy Thanksgiving, everyone.
