---
title: jets, pull-ups, and salt water siphons
banner: 2020-06-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday, and happy
almost-end-of-the-week.  How do you feel today?  Do you feel good
about what you've accomplished so far this week?  Marissa and I have
had a busy week around the house.  It's only Thursday, and our project
board is just about emptied out.  At this rate, we might not even have
work for this weekend.  It feels good getting things done, doesn't it?

I think I've earned some computer hacking time.  This morning, after a
short walk or a bike ride with Rodney to get some energy out, I'm
going to try to coax him into doing something a little more low key so
I can set up my computer in the living room.  

_Sip_.  Yesterday morning, as we were enjoying our breakfast on the
porch, Rodney kept running his mouth about jets and planes.

"Dada?" he asked, leaning his large head in between my tired eyes and
my dim phone screen.  "We go take off in jets now?  Please?"

I cracked a smile.  I always find it so funny when he asks an earnest,
sincere question that amounts to toddler nonsense, then stares at me
with his big, doughy, expecting eyes.

"I'm sorry dude," I said.  "We've been over this - Momma and I don't
know what you mean by _take off with jets_."

"Yeah," said Rodney, bouncing in place on his legs.  "TAKE OFF with
jets!"

Since Rodney was going to leave the whole _take off with jets_ thing
to my interpretation, I decided to set him up on the couch with a
YouTube video.  The cool thing about YouTube is that it's really easy
to find GoPro footage of virtually any vehicle or ride, and these make
for great kid friendly background videos for the play room.  I cued up
an hour long video taken from the cockpit of a Blue Angels jet, then
set Rodney up on the couch with my USB joystick and my old pair of
headphones, which Rodney claimed as a new tech toy when he yanked the
cable out.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/flying-a-jet-on-the-couch.jpg">
    <img alt="flying a jet on the couch" src="/images/flying-a-jet-on-the-couch.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Rodney taxis around a San Diego air base with his fellow Blue
Angels</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

By the time he lost interest, it was already time for lunch.  Marissa
joined us, and we ate leftovers around the dining room table.  I
heated up the rest of the pork creme pan sauce, and dumped it into a
fresh batch of Kraft Mac 'n Cheese, which tasted so good, it ought to
be a crime.  Usually, when I mess with blue box Mac 'n Cheese, I get
some scorn from Mac 'n Cheese purists Rodney and Marissa.  "I don't
even add milk to it," said Marissa.  But my _mac 'n pan Sauce cheese_
tasted so good, they permitted the deviation from the standard recipe.

Rodney went to his room for some quiet time, and while Marissa was at
her first post pandemic agility practice with the dogs, I split my
time between cleaning the kitchen and soothing a very fussy Charles
Mingus.

"You know what sucks?" I shared with Marissa.  "I feel like I'm ten
times more immune to loud crying than I was when we had Rodney, but
also Charles Mingus cries ten times more than Rodney did."

But I did my best to keep the colic at bay, and I drowned out the rest
with a podcast.  After Marissa returned with a happy and exercised
Ollie and Ziggy, I got Rodney out of his room.

"Dada, I pooped!  In my pull-ups!" said Rodney, greeting me at the
door of his bedroom.

"Oh nice, dude - let's get that changed," I replied, hoisting him up
to the changer.

"And I peed too!" He said happily, pointing around the corner.
Looking back down at him, I furrow my brow in confusion.

"You peed in your potty?" I asked.

"No - in my pull-ups!  The other ones!" said Rodney.  I moved aside
his closet curtain, and Rodney showed me to a damp, wadded up pull up
sitting above his dresser.  I started to piece things together.

"Ah, so you peed in your pull-up while you were sleeping?" I asked.

"Yeah!" said Rodney.

"Then you... changed yourself?" I asked.

"YEAH!" said Rodney more enthusiastically.

"Dude, that's pretty wild," I laughed.  We had joked before about
skipping potty training and just teaching Rodney to change his own
diapers, but who knew that pull-ups were the only missing piece to
make that a reality.

And just when I thought Rodney's potty training journey couldn't get
more interesting.  Rodney's potty training reminds me of a college
class scheduling fluke where you end up taking a bunch of advanced
courses before finishing the intro class.  Rodney has already finished
most of the advanced classes - peeing outside through a fence, wiping
up the toilet seat, changing a pair of pull-ups.  I guess he's going
to be one of those students who saves _Pooping 101_ for the final
spring semester.

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed, and Marissa and I convened on the
back porch with a pair of beers.  We chatted about the day while she
watered the plants and hosed off our dusty umbrella, which I had
finally retrieved from the back of the shed earlier that day.

"So we need to get excited about the first fish tank water change,"
she said.

"I am excited," I replied.

Marissa smiled.  "It will probably take both of us to figure out the
first time.  We're just replacing two gallons of the water with fresh
water, then fixing the levels and stuff."

Marissa and I emptied out a milk jug, filling up all of Rodney's
sippie cups and even a few empty plastic water bottles we had lying
around.  Our fridge looked strange with all the bottles of milk lines
up where the jug normally is.  "Rodney is going to be really freaked
out when he opens the fridge tomorrow", I laughed, taking a swig of
milk out of the plastic bottle.

I started the siphon with my mouth, and after spitting out a mouthful
of tank water, we swiftly filled two jugs worth of water.  We filled a
five gallon bucket with fresh water, marking the line with black
electrical tape.  I started to tip the bucket into the tank, and
Marissa stopped me.

"What are you doing?" she said urgently.  "We still have to adjust the
levels."

"Yeah," I said, lowering the bucket,"but we can just do that in the
tank, right?  I figure we just deal with the water first, then mess
around with the concentrations - what's the difference?"

"The difference is that there are live fish in there," Marissa
laughed.  "In the meantime, they're hanging around in a tank of tap
water."

My eyes widened.  "That's a good point - I didn't think of that.  Man,
this is pretty complicated.  So we're basically making two gallons of
ocean water in this bucket."

Marissa nodded.

"This is kind of elaborate," I continued.  "I don't envy you - I would
not want this to be one of my bi-weekly chores."

"It won't be so bad," said Marissa.  "We'll develop a good system."

Marissa used a sharpie to mark the side of an old plastic syringe for
adding the water conditioner.  "Our pH was way off last time," she
said.  "I think that's why our lil' guy died.  I'm surprised the dude
at the fish store didn't catch that, I actually bought this pH
stabilizer stuff without their recommendation."

As a final step, we just needed to pour the bucket of new water into
the tank.  "We can use the siphon again," Marissa said.

"Nah, then we have to hold the bucket of water higher than the tank.
Just dump it in, I don't want to have to hold the bucket of water over
my head," I laughed.

"What?" said Marissa.  "It's a siphon.  Oh no, do you not know how
siphons work?" she asked, playfully.

I took a step backwards and gave her a patronizing bow.  "Clearly
not," I said sarcastically.  "Go ahead and show me how a siphon
works."  Marissa hesitantly started to draw in some water through the
clear tube.

"This water is falling right back down the second you move the straw,"
I laughed.  "You're basically just drinking out of the bucket."

Marissa, while trying not to laugh, swiftly moved the straw from her
mouth to the tank.  The water gurgled back down the straw into the
bucket.

"Ya see?" I mocked.  "The source has to be more elevated than the
destination.  It's not just a magic tube that can temporarily suspend
gravity."

"I guess _I_ don't know how siphons work," laughed Marissa.

"It's OK," I said.  "Honest to God, for a second there, I had no idea
who would be right.  But watching you fail gave me confidence."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful Thursday.
