---
title: hash, old medicine, and clothes folding hell
banner: 2020-03-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope you're doing well today.  Coming off a
long weekend filled with plenty of lounging, napping, and feasting of
leftovers, I'm feeling good today, and I'm looking forward to jumping
into another work week.  Seriously, I even showered and everything.
I'll tell you - one of the problems with this quarantine lifestyle is
how pointless showers seem, as well as the growing temptation to skip
it altogether.

Yesterday was a wonderful day.  I got a nice, early jump on the
morning.  By the time Rodney woke up, I had already published my
journal entry for the day and cleaned the kitchen.  I ushered him
downstairs and set him up on the couch with some ninja turtles, but
soon he wanted to join me in the kitchen.  I was making a classic
breakfast hash, beginning with peeling and carefully cutting three
russet potatoes into cubes.  With Rodney's help, I diced a half of
onion and mixed it with some cabbage.  I fried some bacon, set it
aside, and using the fat, tossed the potato cubes and began slowly
browning them.

One unsuspecting hero I've come across while planning meals to eat
during quarantine is the cabbage.  A cabbage, even sliced up, lasts
way longer than I thought it would.  I've never been able to use up
anywhere close to a whole head of cabbage in a single recipe, and
foolishly I've always just discarded the rest of it.  _A head of
cabbage is so cheap, it's only a few dollars_, I'd rationalize.
_Nothing that cheap could possibly last very long in the fridge_.  I
was wrong.  We're still working on the same head of cabbage I sliced
up at the beginning of our quarantine, and it makes everything
delicious.

Together, Rodney and I dumped the onions and cabbage into the
potatoes.  Rodney added the butter, using a new trick I showed him
wherein you use the side of the pan to scrape the pad of butter free.
"Oh, I get it," said Rodney in his signature way.

Marissa joined us at the table just in time.  We each ate a bowl of
hash, and while Rodney finished his breakfast, I began _schlepping_
boxes from the basement.  Today we were going to go through the bins
of Rodney's old clothes with the goal of stocking up Miles' wardrobe
for week zero, and maybe finding some clothes to donate along the way.
I lined up the blue bins in a long wall spanning across the living
room.  We put on a movie and began sorting.

After about twenty minutes, the novelty of looking at old clothes wore
off on me.  My legs started to fall asleep, and suddenly I was
overcome with the sensation that I was trapped in clothes folding
hell.  "I'm getting a little discouraged," I said.  "I feel like it's
going to take us all day to get through these bins."  Marissa shook
her head without looking up from her pile of clothes.

"Nah, we'll be done before the movie ends," she assured me.  We put on
the _Emperor's New Groove_ for Rodney to enjoy.  He had also broken
into a bin of his old baby toys, and was content reliving the early
years of his childhood.  He sat with his old alphabet song laptop,
fingers at the keys like he was composing a master piece.

"I don't understand," I complained.  "This would take me two days to
do on my own.  Am I folding too slowly?"  Marissa sat quietly, giving
me time to answer my own question.

"Oh my gosh," I said, putting my hand to my mouth.  "I'm a slow
folder, aren't I?"

"You're a _good_ folder," interrupted Marissa.  "But yes, you're very
particular.  I like the way you fold clothes though."  I rose to my
feet to pour another cup of coffee and stretch my legs.

"I'll tell you what," said Marissa.  "Rodney is content playing with
his old toys.  And I'm actually having a lot of fun here too.  You can
hang out on the couch until I'm done, just move the boxes when we're
done," said Marissa.  My eyes widened in astonishment.

"Is that really an option?  I feel bad, we were supposed to do this
together, but I guess if I move everything back, I'd feel good about
that," I reasoned aloud.  "I might be a terrible folder, but I can
_schlepp_ like nobody's business."

"You are _schleppman_ after all," added Marissa.

"Thank you," I said.  "I didn't want to say anything, but this last
twenty minutes was probably my personal clothes folding hell.  I hate
it when I can sense that I'm going way more slowly with something than
I should be."

Marissa finished folding clothes while I finished the movie with
Rodney.  Shortly after, we moved the kitchen to make Rodney a snack.
Rodney and I made a pair of soft boiled eggs and heated up some
fries.  While Rodney finished eating, I _schlepped_ all the boxes of
sorted and folded clothes upstairs.  I put Rodney down for a nap, and
joined Marissa at the table.

"I'm having a blueberry muffin," declared Marissa.

"Then I'm having a beer," I replied.  Marissa also brought over two
grapefruit halves for us.  We sat at the table, waiting for a moment
to let the quiet wash over us while we cut into our snacks.

"I'm starting to like this lifestyle," I said.  "The disease sucks,
but it's so funny to me right now that everyone is just at home
chilling out.  It's like a big _reset_ button, you know?"

"Yeah," replied Marissa.  "This is probably going to have a lasting
impact socially."

Marissa and I dozed off on the couch.  I awoke to Rodney crying
upstairs.  I ushered him downstairs, and he sat on my lap while we
watched an episode of Mr. Rogers.  After the episode ended, we all
wandered into the kitchen to heat up more leftovers.  Marissa lay
claim to the hash, and Rodney and I shared some pizza.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I gathered in the bathroom to
clean out our bathroom closet - our final task for the week.  She had
already finished the first two shelves, and all that was left to do
was to go through the top shelf, which held our stash of medicine.  I
began sorting the bottles with a garbage can at the ready.

"This stuff expired in... 2014," said Marissa reading a label.  "I
feel like some of this stuff expired before we even knew each other,"
I laughed.  "How is that even possible?  This allergy medicine has
probably seen some things."

We consolidated all of our medicine down to a much smaller pile.
Marissa stuck everything in one bin.  "See, look how compact it is?"
I furrowed my brow with concern.

"Well, I don't like how the stuff we use every day is kept so close to
the stuff we never use," I said.  Having difficulty explaining my
angle, I decided to just act it out instead.

"Oh shit, I cut my finger," I said, pretending to hold my injured
hand.  "OK let's find the bandaids."  I reached my hand into the bin
and pretended to rifle through the supplies.  "Ear wax removal?  Nope,
not it.  How about this?  Nope, that's a bottle of peroxide.  I'm
getting blood all over everything right now by the way..."

"OK, what would you do," asked Marissa.  I paused for a moment,
staring at the bin.  I grabbed a smaller empty bin, relocating the
ibuprofen, thermometer, and bandaids.

"Here," I said, gesturing to the smaller bin.  "This is the _oh shit_
bin.  Just a few things that we either use all the time or would need
to grab in a pinch.  And _this_ bin for things that we might use once
a year.  Hot storage - cold storage," I clarified, patting the two
pins beside each other.  Marissa nodded and smiled, then together we
stuck everything back in the closet.  We closed our final project card
for the week.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a great day
today.
