---
title: new phones, skate boarding, and bad cooking
banner: 2020-05-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to Tuesday.  I hope you are coming
off of a relaxing extended weekend, and feeling ready to begin the
true work week.  And if you're not feeling ready - don't sweat it.  We
get Monday for free this week, and we're practically half way to the
weekend.

To set the scene here, it's another hot, muggy day, and with slow and
shuffling steps, I made my way into the kitchen to salvage our coffee
pot parts from the little pile of dirty dishes in the sink.  There are
a few drops of port wine dried on the counter in between a few scraps
of shredded cheese.  Marissa is sleepily flicking through an app on
her phone, and we're both quietly sipping coffee while Miles coos from
his crib.

_Sip_.  This morning was phone upgrade day.  Marissa and I are trying
a new strategy where we upgrade phones together - same device at the
same time.  That way, we can use each other as a control group if one
of our devices start acting up, and not to mention we can use each
other's chargers and accessories.  And another unexpected benefit of
the arrangement is that she is actually getting me excited about a
phone upgrade.

Buying new phones normally makes me really grumpy.  I have a deep,
unprovable suspicion that everything in the smartphone market is
horrendously over-priced.  New phones agitate my cheapness like a
seasonal allergy.

I think part of the problem is that I left my heart with my first
phone - my Nextel flip phone, which had free walkie-talkie calls to
your family, a battery that would last for three days, and so much
rubber stuck to the outside that if you dropped it, it would bounce
right back up.

I also have a lot of resentment for phone companies.  Between the two
of us, Marissa and I have had a lot of disastrous experiences.  When
Marissa first got her Motorola, it would crash a few times a week.
She sent it in for a replacement, and the replacement phone started
crashing even more frequently.  Some might worry when they call their
wife and get an empty dial tone for five minutes, but I know that it's
just Marissa's phone rebooting, and I can almost picture her staring
down at the Motorola loading screen with bleak disappointment.

I may never again have a phone as good as my old Nextel from high
school, but I can get excited about new phone day.  And it's probably
for the best that I pulled the trigger while still groggy from last
night's libations - the less I remember about giving money to Google,
the better.

But enough about phones.  Let's do yesterday, shall we?  In the
morning, Rodney greeted me at the door, reminding me that I promised
we'd go skate boarding.  I remember throwing it out there as a
suggestion, but Rodney latched onto it, and was so excited about it
that it was top of mind the next morning.

"Dada - wear skate board shirt," Rodney said, pulling on his navy blue
Nike shirt.  "And skate boarding _sokken_," he said grabbing at a pair
of Paw Patrol socks.  This was the outfit that he had chosen for our
skate boarding outing.

After a quick _omelettedilla_ breakfast, Rodney and I started down the
block.  I was slowly coasting on my board, and Rodney was struggling
to keep up on his scooter.  Each time I'd get more than a few feet
ahead of him, Rodney would leap off his board and run after me,
yelling "WAIT FOR ME, _PETER PARKER_!"

"No problem, _Miles Spider_ - I gotchu," I said, letting him catch up
to me.

We spent some time kicking around the nearby church parking lot.  I
rode in wide circles, giving Rodney a high five from the curb each
time I passed.  Not long after, the rising heat and mugginess zapped
our energy, and we tiredly returned home.  Rodney kicked off his shoes
and skate boarding socks at the door and sank into the couch with a
cold apple juice in hand.

I prepared some lunch for us.  After putting off Sunday groceries an
extra day, our choices were few, but I was determined to make
something fun and refreshing.  I opened a package of spaghetti and
dropped it into boiling salt water.

_I'm picturing fresh pasta with something green_, I thought.  _How
about canned spinach?_  I opened a can of spinach, and it rolled into
the metal strainer as a solid tangled clump.  _That's not even green.
That just looks like some kind of wig_, I thought as I flipped it into
the garbage.  _How about pickled vegetables instead?_

I diced up some pickled asparagus and pickled red peppers.  I threw
them in a pan with a scoop of pickled garlic.  After combining the
pasta, I went it for a taste.  _TOO much acid_, I thought, puckering
my mouth in pain.  What was supposed to be a fresh summer pasta dish
was looking like spaghetti floating in pickle juice.

"Ah, but grated cheese," I muttered, grabbing for a wedge of
pecorino.  But the cheese made the mixture even more acidic.  I shook
my head in disgust.

"Lunch today was so bad," I laughed with Marissa on the porch later
that evening, "It tasted like I cracked open a battery on some
spaghetti."

"My favorite part was that Rodney actually liked it," laughed Marissa.
"He was just slurping it up one noodle at a time."  She pretended to
hold up an awkward fork and imitate Rodney's curious slurping.

"And I also like how on the way to the table, I heated up a baked
potato for his plate.  Like, 'I better mellow out this salty, acidic
starch with a much more familiar salty starch on top of it'.  Today
was not a good cooking day - it was a bad cooking day," I laughed.

"At least the fajitas were good," said Marissa.

"Except you kind of grated the cheese weird," I interrupted.  Marissa
dropped her jaw in shock.

"What's wrong with how I grated the cheese?" she snapped back.

"You used the finest side of the cheese grater.  The cheddar looked
like little worms," I jeered.

"That was so it would melt faster!" replied Marissa.

"Look," I said shaking my head.  "For a taco, I would have made it a
little more coarse.  Just so we could have avoided reaching into what
looked like a bowl of cheese monster acne."  The crude imagery made
Marissa gag before we both started laughing.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day
today.
