---
title: some scary stories
banner: 2020-10-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Halloween, readers.  By now, I imagine you're returning home
from some careful, socially distant candy harvesting.  To complement
the sweets, today's look back Saturday will feature some scary stories
from my past.  Although not all of these are strictly Halloween
related, they're all scary and suspenseful in their own rite, and
hopefully they'll send a shiver down your spine and make you clutch
your loved ones a little closer.

## "Don't Go In There"

One fall weekend my dad decided to take my sister Kelly and I to
Woodfield mall.  Even if you weren't there for shopping, the mall was
a great place for killing time, people watching, and wandering stores.
As kids, we looked forward to the junk food, throwing pennies in the
fountain, and if we had been holding down good behavior, our parents
would let us share a smoothie from Surf City Squeeze - unequivocally
the greatest smoothie shop to ever exist.

Nearing Halloween weekend, the mall sparkled with spooky decorations.
The decorations in the seasonal Halloween costume store prominently
spilled out into the walkway, making it hard to avoid their cobwebs,
gravestones, and flowing white ghosts.

I gripped my dad's hand tightly as we passed by.  Kelly, sensing my
fear, did what cruel big sisters do best.

"Dad," she said snidely.  "We should go in _there_."

My dad stopped in his tracked.  "Oh yeah?" he asked coyly winking.

"Yeah," Kelly snickered.  "I think Alex wants to go in there.  BY
HIMSELF."

She and my dad laughed.  I buried my face in my dad's sweater and
began to whimper.  "Dad, I don't want to go in there," I said.

We wandered the mall a little longer, reaching the very end and
doubling back just before the JC Penny outlet.  Knowing the Halloween
store was once again right around the corner, my heart began to race
and my hands felt clammy.  I let go of my dad's hand to wipe the sweat
off onto my jeans.  The entrance of the Halloween store came into
view.  One of the employees, wearing a _scream_ mask, locked eyes with
me and slowly cocked his head.

"DAD, WE CAN'T GO IN THERE," I pleaded.  Nearly losing my dad and
sister in the crowd, I spotted his sweater, running after him.  He had
veered directly toward the store, making his way to the entrance.
Through smoke machines, strobe lights, and cackling witches, I ran
after him, grabbing hold of his arm and leaning back with all my
might.

"DAD, PLEASE," I pleaded, falling to my knees with his sleeve in my
hand.  "DAD PLEASE, DON'T GO IN THERE.  DON'T GO IN THERE."

Crumpled on the floor, tears streaming down my face, I caught a
glimpse of my dad and sister.  But they weren't at the entry way of
the Halloween store.  And the sweater sleeve that I was desperately
clutching didn't belong to my dad.

A confused, grey haired elderly man turned toward me, gently releasing
his sweater sleeve from my grip.  He furrowed his brow, then awkwardly
smiled before excusing his way past me into the Halloween store.  I
scrambled back up to my feet, and through the ghastly decor I followed
the sounds of my dad and sister laughing.

"Dad, dad," sneered Kelly.  "Who am I?"  Kelly dropped to her knees
with clenched fists.  "DON'T GO IN THERE!  DON'T GO IN THERE!" she
wailed.

## A Figure in the Dark

One thing that I never got used to about living in Rockford was how
dark it was.  When the sun went down, the side streets were dark.  The
parking lots were dark.  The night sky, far from the light pollution
of the big city, spread out like an oppressive heavy blanket of
darkness.  Even while making my driving home on the illuminated
interstate highway, I shuttered looking into the corn field where the
last bit of light casted from the streetlights was swallowed up in
nothingness.

In my lonely apartment tucked between a shadowy side street and an
open field, I used to hate crossing the big empty parking lot to throw
my trash away.  One cold winter night, I threw on a pair of flip-flops
and stepped outside into the crisp chilly air, lugging a plastic
garbage bag behind me at my feet.  My heart quickened as I reached the
end of the blacktop.  The open dumpster was almost invisible against
the backdrop of spidery, leafless trees scraping at a moonless sky.

I planted my feet and began to heave the bag over my shoulder.  I saw
a dark figure moving in the dumpster.  I froze in place, the bag still
dangling over my shoulder.

Holding completely still, my heart was throbbing so quickly that it
nearly drowned out the sound of quiet, methodical scraping.  Without
making a sound, I leaned forward, and the black void inside the
dumpster slowly began to take shape.  I saw thin arms, and fingers as
black as leather gloves.

_Somebody... is eating out of the trash,_ I thought.  But who?  Was it
a drifter?  A junkie?  A deranged scavenger?  A thief lying in wait to
jump an unsuspecting apartment dweller?

The shuffling stopped, and the figure craned its neck up to meet my
vision.  I saw a pale glimmer in a pair of glassy eyes.

"GET OUT OF THE TRASH," I yelled hoarsely.  "What are you doing!  GET
OUT OF THERE."  The fog from my breath fell at my feet as the figure
continued to stare at me.  No response.  No movement.  Not a sound.

My eyes continued to adjust.  Staring at the figure, I was able to
make out a pointy nose, whiskers, and bushy fur.

I broke out into laughter.  "You're a raccoon," I laughed in relief.
The animal disappeared into a pile of garbage.  I laughed alone in the
parking lot.

## The Yellow Room

My high school convened in an old building.  Dim lighting, milky white
windows, rust colored brick, chipped lead paint, and yellow stained
concrete walls.  The carpet smelled like a different decade.  A rusty
barbed wire fence wrapped around the playground.

My school had only used the building since the eighties, but before
that the building belonged to the much larger Arlington Heights Public
high school, which dated back to the sixties.  With three full floors
and three different gymnasiums, our tiny private Christian school
could barely fill the space, and the easiest way to visualize that was
just in how many extra lockers we had.

Our student to locker ratio was probably 1 to 30.  We had so many
extra lockers that even the kindergarteners got their own.  Every
hallway, whether we used it or not, was lined with burnt orange and
red lockers.  Some were locked from the inside.  Some were welded
shut.  Some were sealed off completely with a metal cable running
through the row of silver handles.

With so many derelict lockers lining the hallways, we fueled their
eerie presence with tall tales and urban legends.  Some students
claimed to have found caches of weapons, hard drugs, and satanic
relics.  Some students believed that in an unkown locker was stashed
Al Capone's hidden fortune.  Some students believed that one of the
lockers kept a dead body, and that you could smell it on the really
humid days in September.

Walking through the long, dark hallways, absent-mindedly tracing the
neat orderly metal row of locker numbers, every once in a while a
locker would catch your eye and stand-out.  Some lockers hung crooked
on broken hinges.  Some lockers looked slighty too big, slightly too
small, or painted with a slightly different color.  Some lockers were
partly pried open from the corner.  Some lockers had their numbers
scratched off, or bore some other faded knife point scrawl.  It was
hard not to think about the possibility that one of these sealed metal
boxes entombed an evil secret.

On the third floor, only the band room, around the corner from the top
of the stairs, students frequented.  The rest of the entire third
floor remained locked away, illuminated only by slivers of light that
slipped through the highest windows.  In the dark corners of the third
floor, you could find secret corridors, bullet holes in the walls, and
doors without handles that led nowhere.

Our security guard told us about a hidden fourth floor.  Above our
chapel was a long, high corridor.  In the days of Arlington Heights
high school, students used to sneak into the hidden room and add their
own tag to what became a sanctuary of graffiti.  He told us that every
inch of the walls and ceiling was covered in spray paint.

My sister Kelly told me that she and her friends ventured deep into
the third floor in search of the hidden graffiti room.  They never
found it, but Kelly stumbled into another mystery.

Kelly told me that they found a door that led to the balcony
underneath the gymnasium scoreboard.  Following it around the hallway,
they were led to a narrow cat walk that led behind the highest
bleachers.

"And then there was a yellow door," said Kelly.  "We opened it, and
all of the sudden we were in a yellow room.  The walls and the floor
were yellow.  The ceiling was yellow.  And there was nothing in the
room except for a yellow couch."

In spite of all my own exploring, I never found the yellow room.  I'd
like to think it's impossible to find.  Maybe there was no yellow
room.  Maybe the moment after Kelly and her high school friends shut
the door behind them, it disappeared from existence.  Maybe another
student would later stumble into an all green room, a red room, or a
black room.  Maybe Kelly and her friends caught a glimpse into another
world or another dimension.

The yellow room is just another secret, another untold story, another
haunting reverberation in the high ceilings and cracking concrete of
our haunted school building.

