---
title: haunty, new neighbors, and lord of the rings
banner: 2020-07-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends.  Happy Sunday.  It's a quiet morning, here.
Rodney and I are winding up for the day the best we know how - me,
with a hot cup of coffee, staring off into space trying to think about
what to write about, and Rodney, by jumping on the couch belting out
the words to Blippi's excavator video like it's a drinking song.  To
each his own, I guess.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  Despite the late start to the
day, Marissa and I braved a kitchen still in shambles from Friday
night grilled cheese outing to make lunch, and afterwards I caught up
on cleaning.  Rodney spent pretty much the whole afternoon with his
new K'nex crane, and overhearing the conversation in his head, I
learned some things about it.

1. The crane's name is _Haunty_ - as in "haunt", but it emphatically
   has nothing to do with ghosts.
2. Haunty is a good boy.
3. The weights at the end of Haunty's hook are _coins_, and he gives
   them out to other good boys and people that win his favor.

Haunty is a fine addition to our family.  And since I already begin
each morning embellishing Rodney by conversing with his Spider-Man
toy, Krang the sourdough starter, and our fish Ibb and Obb, why not
add one more imaginary character in the mix?

As I was cleaning the kitchen, Rodney wandered in with Haunty at his
side asking for a plastic bag.

"In the drawer dude, help yourself," I replied, smiling.  When I
wasn't looking, Rodney grabbed a dozen Ziploc bags, filling them each
with a single toy from his toy corner and arranging them at Haunty's
feet, like an altar.  I discovered the bizarre spread on the couch the
same time Marissa did.

"He said the bags are so Haunty can pick them up," said Marissa,
bringing me up to speed.

"I can't even be mad," I laughed.  "I showed him where the bags were
because I assumed he was just trying to organize something, and I felt
proud."

Rodney went down for a nap, and Marissa and I worked outside.  We
spent the afternoon bolting a new set of wood slats to our backyard
fence.  As I made trips to and from the driveway around the front of
the house to the backyard, I noticed a moving truck parked in our
shared driveway.

"Our new neighbors are moving in," said Marissa through a narrow gap
in the other side of our fence.  "I think it's a small family.  They
have a little girl who looks Rodney's age."

"Oh man," I laughed.  "He's going to go nuts.  Maybe after _da' covid_
shakes out, they can have neighbor play dates."

Between the growing swarm of mosquitos and the waning afternoon,
Marissa and I called it for the day.  We decided to head inside and
start on dinner.

"Hey could you do me a favor," I said quietly through our fence.
"Could you let me in through the side door?  I don't want to meet the
neighbors while I'm wearing my baggy pajama pants and yesterday's
ratty t-shirt.  I don't want to scare them."

"Oh sure, I got you," replied Marissa.  "I think it's polite to wait
until after moving day anyway - nobody likes to meet new people while
_shlepping_ things out of a moving truck."

After putting Rodney to bed and some independent hobby time, Marissa
and I reconvened on the couch to resume our Lord of the Rings
marathon.  Even though we came around to appreciate some aspects of my
previous movie pick, _The Last Temptation of Christ_, Marissa insisted
that for making us sit through that mess, some kind of punishment was
in order.

"I'm committing us to the entire Lord of the Rings trilogy," she said.
"I can't control your pick, but I'm just telling you what I'm doing
with my picks."

"That seems fair," I laughed.  "I'll sign on to that - if you pick The
Fellowship, I'll pick the Two Towers."

Unknown to me, our copies of Lord of the Rings are the extended
editions, which means we're experiencing the trilogy in its full,
uncut, unfiltered nerdery.

"You know how you can tell it's a deleted scene?" I asked,
interrupting the movie.  "All the characters are going to bed.  Or
they're waking up in the morning.  Or two characters are whispering to
each other in the middle of the night, _then_ they go back to bed."

"Also, when one of the characters is singing," Marissa added.

"And, just generally over-explaining something that's of little
consequence?" I added a little more sardonically.

"Little consequence?" retorted Marissa.  "Oh all the stuff connects.
I guess I just like the movie more than you do.  Did you know I was a
full blown Lord of the Rings nerd?"

We finished the _Mellowship of the Ring_, and as promised, I used my
pick on The Two Towers, or _Two Extra Hours_ as we've been referring
to it.  Knowing Marissa's former obsession with these movies, I
started to find joy in spoon feeding her basic facts about the movie.

"Fun fact," I said, interrupting another scene.  "Did you know that
_Strider_ actually had to ride that horse?  Oh and that little hobbit
there?  That's Frodo Baggins.  You're going to want to remember him."

The movie went on.  We popped popcorn and fetched another pair of
beers.

"You know I never got to see Tolkien's desk at school," Marissa said.
Our college kept Tolkien's desk on display in a small writing museum -
allegedly the same desk on which he wrote the Lord of the Rings.

"Really?" I laughed incredulously.  "For some reason I saw it on my
first weekend there."

"What did you think of it?" asked Marissa.

"My first thought was 'this is small'," I said.  "Like it looked like
a desk for a child, or one that they would give you in a prison cell.
But then the tour guide said something like 'he wrote the whole story
in his head while fighting in World War 1'.  Maybe he wasn't a big
note-taker."

We arrived at the scene where Smeogal dives into the forbidden pool,
hunting for a fish.  In unison with the movie, I sang _The Rock and
Pool is nice and cool_ in my best Gollumn voice.  Marissa whipped her
head at me in shock.

"You do a really good Smeogal voice," she said.  "I didn't expect
that."

"FILTHY HOBBITSES!" I hissed, following it up with a few of his
trademark _GOLLUMN!  GOLLUMN!_ retches.  "I feel like everyone could
do a Smeogal voice.  I remember at youth group we used to stand around
in a circle and just talk to each other like Smeogal.  It never seemed
that special."

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
