---
title: the beep and the box fort
banner: 2020-12-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday, and welcome to the end of the
week.  The house is restless today.  Every ten minutes from somewhere
upstairs, a shrill electronic beep pierces the morning quiet.  _Beep_.
It sounds like dying robot.  It sounds like somebody plugged a bar
code scanner into a guitar amp and pulled the trigger.  _Beep_.

Rodney is awake.  The beeping has caused him to give up on sleeping
in, instead inspiring him to move furniture around his room in
frustration.  Miles is also awake, boisterously squelching in his
crib.  The dogs are nervous.  They're curled up in their usual spots,
but every ten minutes at the mercy of the cruel, incessant sound,
their eyes shoot open to scan the room.  _Beep_.

Annoying on one hand, but also kind of amusing watching such a small
nuisance have a ripple effect on this quiet Friday morning in the
homestead.  In the tail end of my time-boxed morning routine, I only
had a few minutes to investigate the noise.  Top suspect is the backup
battery in our carbon monoxide detector.  I plucked it out of the wall
socket to investigate.  The tiny LED screen was empty except for a
dot, like a dangling period - how helpful!  I resisted the urge to
open a window and fling the device out onto our driveway - mostly
because deep down I knew that after watching the device explode on the
pavement, I would probably hear the chirp again from somewhere else in
the house.  _Beep_.

How exciting.  We have a real mystery to solve on this Friday morning.
We can be like Scooby and the gang trying to unmask the sinister beep
that kept us all from sleeping in this morning.

_Sip_.  Have you read the manual for your carbon monoxide detector?
When was the last time you replaced its back up batteries?  And how
was your Thursday?

Coming down stairs for coffee yesterday, I found Marissa at the dining
room table rubbing her eyes.  Rodney busily milled around, circling
her like he was mingling at a party for one.

"Good morning, dada," he said with a polite wave.  "Do... you want to
make a Paw Patrol rescue today?  We have to help Rubble and Skye."

"Oh wow, dude," I said.  "That sounds like a lot of fun, but I just
came down stairs to get coffee.  Maybe later."

"Maybe later we can do a Paw Patrol rescue together," said Rodney, his
voice trailing off as he wandered into the living room."

Marissa picked her head up out of her hands.  "He's funny today," she
said.  "He's really nice, but also really annoying."

Rodney craned his head back into the dining room.  "We'll do a Paw
Patrol rescue later," he said, like a hovering office coworker that
doesn't know when to cut the small talk short.  He continued the
conversation to himself from around the corner.

"Yeah," I commented quietly.  "Just like... imperceptibly annoying."

"He's just really bored," said Marissa.  "I think I might have to pull
out the big guns today.  Remember that box fort Gigi got us?"

"I don't think I remember that one," I said.

"Well I stashed it in the basement," smiled Marissa.  "He doesn't know
about it."

By the time I came down stairs for another coffee break, the giant
circular box fort was set up in the play room.  The cardboard walls
shook while Rodney scurried inside.  Two flaps in the shape of a
window flung open, and Rodney stuck his head out grinning.

"Look at my NEW HOUSE," he yelled.

"Dude, this is awesome," I said, coming up to it to get a closer look.
The box fort had a high arching ceiling, a pair of doors and windows,
and it came with a box of paint sticks.  Rodney had already colored
some of the pattern on the side.  Marissa opened the cardboard back
door and slipped inside.

"It's kind of cozy in here.  Why don't you get momma a blanket, Rod,"
she said.

"That could be a nice place to take a nap," I laughed.

Rodney gave me the official grand tour.  He pointed to the door, which
was printed with an imaginary sign that read "Clubhouse members only."

"This says _come on inside WHENEVER you want_," said Rodney,
pretending to read the print.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-04-clubhouse-members-only.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 04 clubhouse members only" src="/images/2020-12-04-clubhouse-members-only.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>WHENEVER you want.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

Opening the cardboard door, I flopped onto the living room floor and
began to carefully shimmy into the box fort.  Like a spelunker, I had
to turn onto my side so my shoulders would fit.  To get my legs in, I
had to roll to my knees, lifting the whole box fort with my head in
the process.

"When dada is in this thing, it feels like a rocket ship blasting
off," Marissa laughed.

_FIVE.  FOUR.  THREE.  TWO.  ONE._  Making rocket ship noises with my
mouth, I slowly rose to my feet, lifting the entire fort high into the
air.  Rodney promptly scolded me and I returned to my seat.

"So fair warning," said Marissa.  "It gets really hot in here.  We'll
probably have to get out in ten minutes or so."

"Yeah dude," I laughed.  "You got some serious ventilation issues in
this new house of yours.  But it's probably fixable - every house is a
work in progress."

Later that evening, we would field a Zoom call with Mimi and Papa from
inside our house.

"What do you think of our new house, Mimi?" I asked into the phone.
The phone camera was getting foggy from our breath.

Using Rodney's stuff dog Corgi as a puppet, I bursted through the
window.  _HEEEEERE'S CORGI_, I growled in my best Jack Nicholson
voice.  Rodney thought it was the funniest thing in the world, and
we'd hear the same joke about 500 more times.

Box forts are the best, aren't they?  And so are Friday's.  Here's to
making it to the end of the week, and thanks for stopping by.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-04-clubhouse-girls.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 04 clubhouse girls" src="/images/2020-12-04-clubhouse-girls.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>
