---
title: zooms with santa, paw patrol conspiracies, and cilantro
banner: 2020-12-18.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday.  It feels so good to be able to
say that this morning.  The week was long.  Gratifying, but long, and
I can't help but feel like it's all been working up to this afternoon
when I can sign off for the weekend and take a nap.  In fact, just
thinking about this afternoon's nap is making me feel giddy.

Today is a bitter sweet Friday.  It marks what is officially the end
of the "flex Fridays" perk my work has extended through quarantine.
Up until now, Friday has been a half day.  They were very clear that
this was just a temporary benefit to help everyone adjust to the
remote lifestyle, but sad to see it go nonetheless.  Here's to you,
flex Friday.  I'll never forget how good flex Friday lunch tasted, and
how wonderful the flex Friday after lunch nap felt.  From here on out,
I'll have to stick it out for the whole nine-to-five just like
everybody else.  Life goes on.

_Sip_.  How much do you hate me for getting to have half day Fridays
all this time?  What kind of Friday do you think this will be for you?
And how was your Thursday?  I had a busy, yet fulfilling Thursday.  In
the morning we had a potential production issue come up, so we had to
do some scrambling to make sure things would be fine at least through
Christmas.  Pretty much the rest of the day I was heads down planning
work for our interns.

Meanwhile, downstairs in our dining-room-turned-shipping-center, head
Christmas Elf Marissa hit a major milestone.  As of lunch time
yesterday, we are officially done with Christmas cards and Christmas
presents.  Everything is either in the mail or sitting in a box
against the wall waiting for our family contactless Christmas present
drop off tour around the Midwest.  We're still trying to find a good
day to hit Minnesota, but the Illinois leg of the journey is
finalized.  Yesterday, I went a little overboard and sent out an hour
and minute itinerary to plan the journey.  We depart our home tomorrow
after lunch.  We'll hit Geneva, West Chicago, and Lombard.  By the
time we're done, it will be dinner time, and we'll be within dangerous
striking distance to a lot of excellent eating options.  Marissa will
probably want to stick it out until we reach the Beef-a-roo in
Rockford, so the big questions is whether or not I will be able to
convince her to let us stop at _Los Burritos_ beforehand.

Marissa, and even Rodney share my excitement for the journey.  What a
testament for how bored we've been these days that we're looking
forward to spending six hours in the car together on Saturday.

In other news, Rodney has been on his best behavior lately, and I
think it's because this whole concept of Santa's naughty list finally
clicked.  Marissa says she's been in daily communication with Santa on
where Rodney stands in the great balance of naughty and nice.  I was
there to add necessary detail.

"Momma talks to Santa?" asked Rodney.

"Sure dude," I replied.  "We both do.  We do a Zoom call with him
every night, and he says 'how was Rodney today'?"  Rodney was
speechless as his imagination silently ran wild.  Marissa's lips were
pursed to keep her from accidentally laughing.

"That's right, dude," said Marissa.  "Like today, when I dropped my
phone while feeding Miles?  Santa was extra impressed that you paused
Paw Patrol and got off the couch to pick it up for me, and I didn't
even need to ask you."

"Dude, that was a game changer," I stressed.  "I think that really
factored in to this Mighty Pups Paw Patrol Tower."

Yesterday during a 1-on-1 with Connor, he asked about the role of Paw
Patrol in our household.  "I don't even know what Paw Patrol is," he
laughed.  "It's a show right?"

"It's a show, unfortunately," I replied.  Miles began to wale in the
baby monitor.  I reached across my desk to hit the power button.

"Do you like it?" he asked with a wry smile.

"That's a complicated question," I replied.  "I think I'm not alone
when I say that most parents have a love-hate relationship with the
shows that occupy kids.  You're grateful that they have something that
makes them happy, but you hate how repetitive and condescending it
is."

Marissa and I still sometimes exchange Paw Patrol conspiracy theories.
Yesterday, Marissa referred to Ryder as a 'boy millionaire'.

"This is new," I said.  "So you think he's a millionaire?"

"Well sure," replied Marissa.  "How else would he afford all the fancy
equipment."

She has a point.  Each of his dogs owns an amphibious tank.  He has
complete autonomy over the tallest tower in their beautiful ocean side
city.  On a whim, he can screw around in outer space, take people
across international borders, and deploy deep sea submarines without
asking permission from anyone.  He'd have to be a millionaire.

"Maybe it's all government funded," I laughed.  "What if Ryder just
cons the Canadian government into paying for all of this like Elon
Musk?"

"Speaking of Paw Patrol, have you seen any of these dinosaur universe
episodes?" said Marissa.

"Did they jump the shark?" I asked.

"It's Paw Patrol," said Marissa.  "The show is constantly jumping the
shark."

As ridiculous as we find shows like Paw Patrol and Blaze, they make
Rodney happy.  And they also make us appreciate the shows that we
_all_ like - things like the Dude Perfect YouTube channel.

We ended the night on a bowl of chicken gumbo.  The last time I made
gumbo for us, Marissa wasn't a fan.  To be fair, for someone who
doesn't like gravy it's inherently a little hard to sell her on what
is essentially an entire bowl of gravy.  But this time around, I put a
little tuft of cilantro on top of the soup.

"The cilantro is a game changer," she said hungrily lapping up the soup.

"Of course it is," I laughed.  "That's the _cheese_ on the mouse
trap."

"What do you mean?" she laughed.

"Whenever I make something that I know you'll have a hard time
enjoying, I throw in one of your favorite ingredients to lure you in.
It turns out you're easy to please, it just took a little cilantro on
top."

After dinner, Marissa was in the kitchen making chocolate bars.  As a
joke, while she wasn't looking I sprinkled cilantro on the plate.

Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  I hope that you have a good Friday.
