---
title: life hacks, corn tortillas, and eating faster
banner: 2020-10-20.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  And if you happen live in my
neighborhood, let me also wish you a happy garbage day.

Can I share a good life hack with you?  The city empties our beige
garbage cans each Tuesday morning, but they only pick up the dark
green recycling cans every other Tuesday.  I remember when we first
moved into this house, I had trouble remembering if it was a recycling
week or not.  Ultimately I'd have to guess.  Sometimes I guessed
correctly, and other weeks I'd have to sprint down our icy driveway in
my bare feet and bathrobe with our overflowing recycling bin
skittering behind me.

So to help me remember when the recycling weeks are, I came up with a
new system where I always retrieve the garbage can first.  If it's a
recycling week and both empty cans are on the curb, the garbage can
gets returned to position one up right against the garage.  The
recycling bin follows, and I leave it in position two beside the
garbage can.  If it were not a recycling week, then we can assume the
recycling bin is still up by the driveway in position one.  While
returning the garbage can, I slide the recycling bin over to position
one up against the garage, and the trash bin takes its place at
position two.

I like this system because if I ever have a doubt, I can just look
outside to see which can is closest to the garage.  If it's the
recycling bin, that means it's a recycling week.

"Wouldn't it make more sense to use the can that's closest to the end
of the driveway?" asked Marissa.  I'm not going to lie, that's solid
rebuttal.  But at this point after using this dumb system of mine for
almost two years, I'd be too scared to change things up on my brain
now.

I have another dumb life hack like that for deodorant.  I noticed that
for whatever reason, the stick wears down unevenly.  I think it has
something to do with how I hold the stick with my right hand.  After a
few weeks of use, my deodorant looks slanted - one side worn down to
the plastic lip while the other side still had several millimeters to
go.  Similar to my garbage can system, I set up a new even dumber
system in which I always hold the stick with the cap facing towards
me, and when I'm done I switch the cap to the other side - the theory
being that if I alternate daily, I can wear down the stick more
evenly.

But there's trouble in paradise.  My favorite deodorant switched to a
more minimal style of lid that is completely symmetrical.  With no
label or special markings on either side, it's impossible to know
which is the front and which is the back.  I think the problem is
unsolvable, and that's OK.  I guess you can't control everything.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  It's a beautiful, chilly day
today.  And furthermore, it feels good to be back on my regular
virtual console.  While rebuilding the server, I had to resort to a
more temporary writing setup without my usual bells and whistles.  I
didn't have my automatic image resizer, my script that posts to slack
and twitter, or any of my keyboard shortcuts.  I finally finished
setting up my virtual console, and let me just say it's good to be
back home - virtually.

Despite the wine hangover and iffy sleep, yesterday went amazingly
well.  Perhaps the coffee hit just right, or I was just feeling cozy
from beginning a new laundry cycle, but out of nowhere I found this
extra wellspring of energy that kept me going all day.

It was a busy day.  Kicking off a new sprint at work, adding some new
consultants to our team, getting ready for the internship.  I also
woke up to find out that I was on-call and had a slew of questions to
triage in our support channel.

The real highlight of yesterday was makings tacos for dinner, but
first let me tell you about our marriage.  On the surface, Marissa and
I look happy and compatible, but beneath the thin veneer of
amicability lies a chasm of disagreement.  A cold war we've silently
and privately fought throughout or marriage.  I've finally found the
courage and conviction to come forward about our struggle and admit
this publicly, and I have faith in our friends and family that we
won't be judged for it.

Here it goes.  Marissa and I... disagree about which tortillas to buy.

Marissa insists on flour tortillas.  Big, soft, spongy comfort food
wrapping - the whiter the better.  And me?  Don't get me wrong, I'm
happy to pig out on some junk food when the time calls for it.  I
respect Taco Bell too much to universally turn my nose at flour
tortillas.  The Crunchwrap supreme is a masterpiece that would be
otherwise ruined if you were to replace the beautiful flour tortilla.

But I like corn tortillas too, and I think certain tacos just taste
better that way, especially when you are trying to capture the whole
authentic picture.

So last night, I planned a food intervention.  The theme of the meal
was learning to love corn tortillas.  We made tiny street style tacos
with ground pork, cilantro, and chopped red onion.  On the side, we
had some refried beans and Mexican rice.

I don't want to be too optimistic, but I think we broke ground last
night.  Adorned in all of Marissa's favorite ingredients like
cilantro, red onion, and fresh guacamole, she permitted the brief
departure from flour tortillas.  There's hope yet.

Rodney struggled with dinner.  For a kid who can barely hold his focus
on using a fork, he quickly turned his plate of quaint rolled up tacos
into a tattered, wet mess of tortilla and meat.  Rodney reached over
his plate, feasting on chips.

"That's enough chips," I scolded.  "You need to eat your food."

"No, it's too spicy," said Rodney.  In a huff, I sprang out of my
chair, paced around the room, and sat beside him.  "You eat," I said
sharply.  For the next twenty minutes, we'd share what must have been
the dullest moment of our lives, silently staring at each other while
Rodney reluctantly grazed one small mouth full at a time.

"So sorry about that, dada," said Rodney, trying to butter me up.

"_What_ are you sorry about?" I retorted.

"Ummmm...," Rodney scratched the back of his head.  "Eat faster?" he
asked.

"Bingo," I said.  "You're a big boy now.  I'm getting sick of you
being the last at the table.  You need to eat."

Kids are frustrating.  I don't feel great about how the prevailing
take-away from this struggle is _eat faster_.  I wish I could get it
through to him that he needs to do a better job balancing eating and
talking, or that we wouldn't get so hungry in his room if he did a
better job finishing his plate.  But after numerous nights of nagging
Rodney to take each bite of food, _eat faster_ is the best we can do,
and that's good enough for now.

Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  Hope you have a wonderful day
today.
