---
title: krang, mise en place, and big fleshy bag pipes
banner: 2020-05-18.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  Happy Monday.  How are you holding up so far
in the work week?  My morning is a little thrown off today.  I was
expecting another repair guy today to take a look at our struggling
oven.  Isn't it annoying how _eight to twelve_ really just means 7:55
AM if you're the first appointment of the day?

At least this guy was a lot nicer, and frankly a lot more helpful than
the last guy.

"Let me guess," he said kneeling to our kitchen floor.  "About every
other day, you go to start it, and you hear _click-click-click_, then
it shuts off?"

"Yes, that's exactly it," I said finishing a tired sip of coffee.  I
was relieved it didn't take much explanation.

"It's a thing with older Whirlpool models," he said.  "The company
won't admit fault for it, so there's no recall, but they got so many
complaints thy redesigned the part on the newer ones."

He seemed pretty confident about it, but I guess I should withhold my
glowing review until we put it to the test about 2.5 weeks from now
when he returns to install the newer part.  Until then, I live one day
at a time at the mercy of the faulty Whirlpool igniter.

_Sip_.  Yesterday, it rained pretty much all day.  This was great news
for our new grass seed, but the confinement took a toll on Rodney.  I
kept him calm through the morning with some compulsory Mr. Rogers
exposure therapy, but his rising tide of boyish energy broke the damn
just before lunch.

"I feel like I've been yelling at Rodney all day," said Marissa.

"Same," I replied.  "He's had a rough time finding stuff to do
inside."

And the funny thing about Rodney is that on his _bad_ mornings, he's
still, in essence, good.  The problems crop up when he tries to be too
involved, too helpful, or take too much initiative with something.

"I caught him trying to climb into Miles' crib," laughed Marissa.  "He
was saying _oh honey_ and trying to comfort him - so be on the lookout
for that."

"I yelled at him because he tried to squeeze into the chair with me
while I was working on the computer," I said.  "He wanted to work on
stuff with me."

But in between cleaning up the house and fending off a hyper-involved
Rodney, I did manage to bake another loaf of bread.  This was trial #2
of my [sourdough recipe].  Per a tip from _breadstagram_, I left this
loaf in the oven for much longer.  The extra heat carmelized the
crust, and I had much better oven spring as well.

"It's too bad I waisted an Instagram post on the last one - just look
at this thing," I announced, holding out the specimen for Marissa at
the dining room table.  She gasped.

![trial 2]

The loaf from trial #2 went to our neighbors.  While we were in the
hospital for Miles' birth, they were kind enough to hang out with our
dogs and feed _Krang_, my insolent bread starter.

And just as _Krang_'s culture is growing stronger, so is his
personality.  Yesterday I taped a little villanous screenshot from
TMNT to his container.  We've also given him some fledgling
personifying characteristics.  To sum up, Krang thinks my bread sucks
and he hates me; and perhaps some of that strife is warranted.  I
recently switched him off the _bougie_ unbleached flour he was eating
and onto regular all purpose flour.

![krang]

After a grocery run, I remained in the kitchen most of the afternoon.
Yesterday I decided to try out my first practice recipe from my French
cooking class.  It was a simple vegetable soup, but the preparation
was deceptively onerous - each vegetable rinsed, trimmed, dried, and
turned to evenly sized _paysanne_ cuts.

But as long as I was committed to embracing _mise en place_, the work
was meditative.  Watching the rain roll down the kitchen windows,
catching up on podcasts. rinsing vegetables in the sink.
Additionally, I feel like I finally got to see our big cast iron farm
sink truly in its element.  The wide, shallow surface gave me lots of
room to pile the peels and off-cuts, and I had a nice round corner for
shaking the grit out of the parsley bunches.

The highlight of the preparation was making the _boquet garnis_.  Just
a bay leaf, a few folded sprigs of thyme, and some parsley stalks
wrapped in a leak and tied with butcher's twine.  "This, according to
Staphane, is the French cooking secret weapon," I said holding up the
little aroma grenade for Marissa to smell.

As the soup finished, I threw together a last minute dining ambiance,
shoving the outgoing mail to the end of the table, dimming the lights,
lighting a bathroom candle, and putting on some jazz music.  Rodney
entered the dining room first and immediately got into character.

"Thank you, _sir_," he said.  "Can I have a cookie, _sir_?"

"I'm sorry, _sir_," I replied.  "But cookies will be served after the
main course."

After dinner, we got Rodney into bed, and I cleaned up the kitchen
while watching Miles.  "Just a fair warning," I said calling down the
stairs to Marissa.  "He's changed, lotioned, fed, and swaddled, but
still kind of fussy.  I think I'm just going to let tough guy here cry
it out for a bit."

Miles hissed, cried, and yelled in the living room.  Rodney, a heavy
sleeper, remained undisturbed.  And with Marissa in the basement, and
me in the kitchen aided by a noisy kitchen sink, Miles cried himself
into a short power nap.

"Does the crying get to you?" asked Marissa as we were cleaning up for
the night.  "I feel so bad for him."

"Yeah, I feel bad for him," I said.  "But the sound itself doesn't
bother me.  I remember for Rodney, I used to grit my teeth and have to
step outside, but the sound doesn't agitate me anymore."

I took a swig of beer and threw my apron over a chair.  Miles, as if
he knew we were talking about him, awoke, resuming his hoarse,
rhythmic weeping.

"It just kind of sounds like someone is playing a big, fleshy bagpipe
in the other room," I laughed.  To emphasize my point, I mimed a
squeezing bagpipe motion, timed perfectly with his short gasps between
the screams.

Have a great Monday, everyone.  Thanks for stopping by today.

[sourdough recipe]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com/sourdough/
[trial 2]: /images/sourdough.jpg
[krang]: /images/krang.jpg
