---
title: chicken stock, car trouble, and next year's resolution
banner: 2020-04-12.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Easter Sunday.  While hunkered down for
the coronavirus pandemic, it's easy to forget about Holidays.  And
thinking about what I was doing this time last year makes me feel sad.
I was probably taking Rodney to the grocery store in our church
clothes.  We lived in a care-free world of high-fives with strangers,
going places together as a family, movies, friends, and eating
outdoors.  It's easy to forget about the lockdown on regular days, but
on Holidays when you feel like you should be doing something more
festive than grocery shopping alone with a mask and gloves, it sucks.

/Sip/.  But I hope you're having a good Easter Sunday anyway.  It
could certainly be worse.  We still have our families, church on
YouTube, and we might even still have some of last year's plastic
Easter eggs rolling around in the basement.

I had a great day yesterday.  In the morning I hung out with Rodney,
tidying up the kitchen while he watched X-Men cartoons.  My only job
was to keep him out of his room so Marissa would have time to paint
his new construction-themed mural, but I also decided to tackle making
homemade stock out of the chicken bones sitting in our fridge.

I filled my stainless steel stock pot with water and threw in the
chicken bones, along with a generous handful of chopped carrots,
celery, and a bay leaf.  The mixture simmered, then rolled into a
gentle boil, as I attentively skimmed scum off the top with a ladle
into the nearby garbage can.

I was prepared for the critical skimming stage of stock preparation.
I had learned from various YouTube videos that if you don't skim off
the scum from a chicken stock, it will break down and be re
incorporated into the mixture as it simmers, making the end product
cloudy and... well... _scummy_.  After about ten minutes of vigilant
skimming, the foam subsided, and I was left with a broth so clear that
I could see my face reflected in the bottom of the pan.  I think
Stephan of the _French Cooking Academy_ would be proud.

Did you know that chicken stock tastes kind of weird on its own?
You're not supposed to season it, so without salt and pepper it still
tastes pretty far off from chicken soup.  It's more of a chicken
_tea_.

After a few hours on the stove, I strained out the solids and moved
the stock into a smaller pan, letting it roll to a boil so it could
reduce.  Marissa took a shift watching Rodney so I could run to
Walgreen's for her.  I grabbed my keys, slipped on my ratty flip
flops, and jumped in the car.  I turned the key, but nothing happened.

_Crap_.  The battery was dead.  I turned the key again, only to hear
the same lifeless, hollow _click_.  I sat in the driver's seat for a
moment, suddenly overwhelmed by the thought of getting our car fixed
during a lockdown.  Are places even still open?  Would I have to start
taking the bus to get groceries?  What if Marissa goes into labor?

"What's wrong?" asked Marissa.  She was seated at the dining room
table.

"Our car battery is dead - it won't start," I said, scratching my
head, standing at the kitchen doorway.

"Ah shoot.  OK, I'll text Alyssa, maybe Trent can fix it," she said
pulling out her phone.

"I'll just walk to Walgreen's in the meantime," I said, grabbing my
mask off the table.

Some time later, I returned from Walgreen's with Marissa's
prescription.  "Trent is on his way over," said Marissa.  "He said
they _weirdly_ don't have jumper cables, but he has a charger and he
can hook it up to our car."

"Oh thank God," I sighed.  "And that is weird.  I mean we don't have
jumper cables either, but he's like a _car guy_."

I wandered outside into our driveway.  Trent was already jogging down
the porch steps, battery charger in hand.  

"Thanks so much for doing this, dude," I said.  He smiled, slipping
his way between our house and the car to plug in the device.  I took a
few steps backwards.  "I feel like such a dick trying to keep six feet
away from you while you're helping me," I said.

Trent laughed.  "No we get it, we're doing the same."  His girlfriend
Alyssa joined us in the driveway, holding their dog, Grasshopper.  And
even though they view was obscured by our backyard fence, Ziggy and
Grasshopper sensed each other's presence, bristling their neck fur and
exchanging menacing, bellowing growls.

Trent hooked up the battery charger and stood back to let it charge.
"So Trent," asked Marissa from our patio.  "How is work treating you
during the lockout."

Trent smiled.  "It's actually really good.  I feel bad, but it's a
much better situation for me now," He explained.  "All the events at
the primate sanctuary are canceled, so all I do is just take care of
the monkeys and come right home.  They don't even need me for the
whole day," he laughed.  "Seriously, this is the most fun I've had at
work in a long time."

"Well that just figures," I added.  "Maybe every job is awesome
without people.  I'm in kind of the same boat now, I really like
remote work.  I get way more done."

"And how is school going, Alyssa?" asked Marissa.  Alyssa was in her
last leg of Veterinary school at University of Wisconsin.

"Not great," she replied.  "I'm finding out that I'm not really an
online learner.  And I was supposed to start my clinic rotations soon,
but I think we just have to skip it," she said.  "I think I have to
take, like, surgery online.  And I have no idea how that will even be
helpful."

"Aw, that sucks," said Marissa.  "I wouldn't want to learn surgery
from a video either," she laughed.

Trent nodded to me, and I leaned into the car to turn the key.  The
engine whirred to life.  I gave a triumphant fist pump.  "I'd let your
car run for like a half hour," instructed Trent.

"Thanks so much, dude," I said.  "You guys are a life saver.  Let's
get a social distancing beer together on the driveway sometime."

"See ya neighbors!" waved Marissa.

Before heading back inside, I climbed into the back seat, reaching for
the 'off' button on the trunk light.  Rodney must have turned it on
while we were waiting out the snow during Thursday's kite flying
adventure, and that had drained our battery.  Mystery solved.

We shared a frozen pizza for dinner, and after putting Rodney to bed,
Marissa and I stood out on the porch underneath the roof, shielding us
from the misting rain.

"Do you have anything in your life that you really need to take better
care of, but you just haven't, like, gotten around to figuring it out
yet?" asked Marissa.

"Oh definitely," I replied.  "My white t shirts.  They're actually
kind of expensive, but at a certain point they turn yellow and get so
crummy that I have to throw them out.  And I haven't sat down to
figure out how to bleach them or whatever.  It sounds like a pain in
the ass."

Marissa laughed.  "For me, it's my brushes.  They get really crusty
and I have to throw them out.  And I feel bad, because you're supposed
to be able to wash them, but when I wash them it ruins the bristles.
I wish I took care of my brushes the way you take care of the knives."

"Well I'm lucky - knives are a lot easier to take care of.  I sharpen
them once a month and wash them by hand, and that's all," I replied.
"And you're an artist.  This is, like, your passion.  You probably
feel like you should have all these useful life hacks for cleaning
brushes by now."

"I'm going to take note of that for next year's new years resolution,"
said Marissa, staring off into the backyard.  I started to chuckle.

"What was that?" I asked.

"Next years resolution.  Like, my new years resolution for _next_
year," she replied.

"OK.  So you are giving yourself, what, a half year to work up to it?"
I started to laugh heartily.  "_Take note of that for next year's
resolution_ - That's the most Marissa phrase I've ever heard in my
life," I laughed.  "Maybe I'll join you in that, and 2021 will be the
year of clean brushes and white t shirts."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful Easter
Sunday.
