---
title: skipping showers, space alien miles, and a new blog theme
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday.

I think I needed a weekend.  When you're hanging around your house all
the time in quarantine, it's easy to forget how tired you are.  This
morning in bed I was dangerously close to falling back asleep.  I
nodded off a few times, and woke to my phone dropping out of my hands
and hitting my chin.  It's been a long week, and I'm looking forward
to a weekend.  Even if I'll still just be hanging around the house,
it's nice to take some time off of thinking about work.  Maybe I'll
find time for a nap, and maybe we'll treat ourselves to some junk
food.  A frozen pizza?  A big bowl of cheese balls?

I skipped a shower today.  That's a great move during these tough
quarantine times.  Instead of frantically and mechanically scouring
myself under hot water and sleepily bumbling back and forth from the
bathroom to my closet, I just sat at our dining room bar and stared
out the window.  It was like a shower for my brain, and it was way
less overhead than an actual shower.

_Sip_.  I'm still waiting on my big coffee shipment to arrive in the
mail.  In the meantime, I've been force to conserve the last bit of
coffee we had, so I brewed a much weaker pot today.

I had a nice, quiet day of work yesterday.  It was a very "academic"
day.  The day before, I drafted up a proposal, and I spent most the
day following up on questions and comments.

"I knew you were focused on something when you didn't come down for
lunch until 12:30," said Marissa.  "You were so excited to eat the
sandwich you made."

"That's true," I said, joining her on the couch with lunch.  Earlier
that day I had joked about eating my lunch at 10.  I normally eat
lunch at 11:30.  I like to think that extra hour the sandwich had in
the fridge gave the oil more time to soak into the cabbage, and it
made it taste even sweeter.

We all ate lunch together in the living room.  Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles was blaring out of the TV.  Rodney was relaxing in his box
fort, snacking on a cut up sandwich and some vegetables.  The box fort
is sticking around.  We noticed it gives Rodney a nice place to eat
snacks in front of the TV while offering protection from a hungry,
stalking Ziggy.  She encircled the box like a frustrated coyote.
Finally giving up on the hunt, she put her paws on the fort window and
let her ears sweep back.  She just had to resort to begging.

After work, I ventured out to Hy-Vee.  The outside world is doing
well.  The grocery store still feels strange with tight nit groups of
people actively avoiding contact from others.  "Everyone shops with
their head down," I told Marissa after coming home.  "I kind of felt
like... _Ofred_?"  Marissa looked at me puzzled.

"You know that show we watched and didn't like.  The one
with... _Ofred_ in it," I clarified.  I was frustrated that the name
_Ofred_ was the only thing I could remember about the show.

"Ah, Handmaiden's tale," filled in Marissa.  I shot her a silent
'thank you' with a finger gun.

We continued chatting about the strangeness of the quarantine.  "It's
weird right now that I can just say 'stay safe' to strangers on
Instagram, and they know what I'm talking about," said Marissa.
"Everybody on the planet right now is doing and thinking the same
thing."

Marissa took a nap on the couch.  I went downstairs with Rodney to
play some video games.  We tooled around with a game of _Skate_ before
I headed upstairs to cook some dinner.  I encouraged Rodney to hang
out and keep playing, but instead he jumped to his feet and followed
me up the stairs.  I put him to work sorting some groceries while I
made fried rice.

Marissa and I had considered the risk involved in my daily grocery
trips.  I agreed to not go as often, with the trade-off that I rely on
some basic, repetitive meals like fried rice and hash to take the
pressure off.  "I don't want to get to the point where we're eating
the same thing every other day," I told her.  "I'll try to jazz it up
with other leftovers and make it taste good."

This batch got a handful of cabbage as well as the rest of Rodney's
celery and carrots he didn't finish for lunch.  I also really opened
up the heat, and I wasn't shy with the butter and soy sauce.  I topped
each bowl with a little scoop of fried shallots.  It was a good batch.

After dinner, we had a remote call with Mimi and Poppa in the living
room.  They too were snuggled up, and they were in good spirits
despite everything happening.  Rodney was excited to see them, running
back and forth from his play corner to the phone to show Mimi and
Poppa each toy he was playing with these days.  In fact, Rodney got so
excited, he accidentally busted a light bulb while throwing around
baby giraffe.  Tiny pieces of glass fell, covering the living room
floor.  "Uh oh," said Rodney.

"We'll have to call you back," said Marissa.  I got off the couch to
let Ziggy outside.  "Good time for bed, I think," I said, scooping
Rodney up so he wouldn't step on any glass.  "You gotta be careful,
dude," I said as we went up the stairs.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I jumped into our individual
work for the evening.  I knocked out an IT ticket and worked on my
blog while she painted the baby room ceiling.  Before heading
downstairs for some R&R, we had a 'show and tell' session.  Marissa
led me into Miles' room, which she painted a deep, friendly swirling
black and grey, speckled with little white stars.  There were also
some cartoony planets, rocket ships, and space men sprinkled
throughout.  "And you even got my flying saucer in!" I exclaimed.  I
was very insistent on at least one flying saucer, and for extra
points, Marissa agreed to paint a little space alien in the cockpit
giving the peace sign.

"It's appropriate," I said.  "Miles is basically like a little space
alien."

I showed Marissa the new layout for my blog.  I stripped it down and
went back to a more basic HTML and CSS feel.  I also broke out the
home page into smaller pages like "stats" and "contacts".

"I like it," said Marissa.  "You know the last one was too _floofy_.
This one is more _you_."  I smiled appreciatively.  You know, for
someone who wears the same thing every day and surrounds himself with
as many plain, muted, pastel colors as possible, I can be surprisingly
picky.  But I'm happy with the new blog theme.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Hope you all have a wonderful
Friday.  Remember - don't let the virus get you down.
