---
title: the bears game, crown molding, and duck breasts
banner: 2020-09-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  Is it the weekend yet?  This
morning it feels like energy is in short supply.  Here I am at the
computer, dumping coffee down my gullet like some kind of frazzled sea
gull, and for whatever reason I just can't resurrect my usual bubbly,
chipper Monday morning self.

Marissa is right there with me, today.  Miles had her up at 3 AM, and
again at 5:30 AM.  Even though he's all smiles now - sitting beside me
in his little chair while Marissa steals a power nap, he certainly
knows how to make a racket when he demands attention.  Oddly enough,
his kicks are almost as loud as his cries.  When he's frustrated, he
lifts his tiny legs and slams them against the bed, and the thumping
can be heard all throughout the house.  _Thump thump thump_.  _Whack
whack whack_.  Miles also likes to express his frustration by ringing
his hands, and sometimes his tiny baby nails will catch on his
fingers, scratching himself, which makes him want to kick, yell, and
scratch even more.  Man, babies are just a hot, dumb mess, aren't
they?

Ugh.  So tired today.  Let's hope that I can turn things around for at
least another day.  It's my 30th birthday tomorrow, and to celebrate
I've taken the day off.  We have some fun family things planned for
the day like eating cake and hanging out at the biergarten, but at
this moment, I'm just excited about the _not working_ component.

_Sip_.  How about those Bears?  Yesterday after making brunch,
Marissa, Rodney, and I settled in to watch every minute of the
twisting, turning exhibition against the Falcons, snatching another
final minute victory from the jaws of defeat.  It doesn't even feel
real, but the Bears are 3-0.  The victory was not without warts and
bumps in the road.  Tarik Cohen is out with an ACL injury.  We had two
touchdowns reversed on us with some iffy calls.  And if you woke up
this morning and you are _not_ Mitch Trubisky, you should be thankful.
Watching him getting pulled out of the game was tough, but clearly the
right call.  Three wins, zero losses.  It probably won't last, but
let's just enjoy it while it does, right?

The Bears game pretty much occupied my thoughts all day yesterday.
Meanwhile, Rodney sat on the couch, contentedly clicking around Nick
Jr. on Marissa's laptop.  Occasionally he'd look up and join in on the
celebration whenever he'd hear Marissa or I clap and cheer.  When the
game was finished, my Twitter timeline exploded with theories and hot
takes, and I just couldn't pull away from it.  It was a fun day, and
football is a great distraction, isn't it?

After the game, our house returned to a much more normal cadence.  I
got busy simultaneously cooking some dinner in the kitchen while
cleaning up from that morning's brunch.  Meanwhile, Marissa took to
Miles' room, where she kept plugging away at some new crown molding.
Every few minutes, between the pops of her nail gun and the growling
of the air compressor, I'd wander in to check on her progress.

"Look at _this_ corner," she said, gesturing to the ceiling.  "I'm
getting better at cutting these.  It kind of clicked, that to make it
even you need to divide the angle in half between the two pieces."

Even though the nuances of her crown molding epiphany were lost on me,
I did my best to play along and be supportive.  Still, I can't help
but underscore how impressed I am that her _first_ attempt at crown
molding is probably the most difficult implementation I can imagine.
The Miles' ceiling has a slant in the middle of the room, and on top
of everything, the house is old, and from what I gather some things
that are supposed to be straight are not.

"Does this corner look bad?" asked Marissa.  "I think that's just
going to have to be a little _wood glue party_ over there."

"I think it looks fine," I said.  "It looks better than it did before.
Remember - your _C+_ is everyone else's _A+_."

That's my go-to line I use whenever Marissa is fretting about a DIY
project.  Sometimes when you obsessively work at perfecting a niche
craft, you can lose sight of how far you've come from when you first
started.  You can forget how magical it seems to everyone else.  If I
were to walk into a room in your house where you did the crown molding
yourself, rest assured I wouldn't immediately start scouring the
corners for mistakes.  To me, the layman, crown molding is magical,
and anyone who learns it is a powerful magician.

After cleaning up the kitchen, while waiting for Marissa to finish up
for the evening, I took a seat at the dining room computer to plan
some meals and put in a grocery order.  I took a risk with dinners
this week.  This evening, we're going to kick off the week with a
quartered up chicken seared and finished in a tarragon cream sauce.
Tuesday is my birthday, and we're just rocking a birthday cake and a
Home Run Inn pizza.  On Wednesday, I'm going to try to make a pair of
duck breasts in peppercorn sauce.  I've never cooked duck before, but
from what I can tell, it's a lot like cooking a chicken thigh.
There's a big pad of fat on one side of the breast, and by the time
the fat has rendered out and it has cooked through, the whole thing is
basically done.

Some risky, first time meals slated for this week, but I was thinking
I needed a break from my usual go-to recipes.  Starting twenty minutes
ago, I'm no longer on-call.  We've got some good wine in the house,
and I'm thinking I would like to spend some intentional time in the
kitchen this week making good food to go with the wine.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful week.
Let's get through this Monday together, shall we?  Just do your best
today.  Remember - your _C+_ is everyone else's _A+_.
