---
title: fart talk, the target parking lot, quiche, and enrichment
banner: 2020-05-20.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  How are you feeling on this Wednesday?  Maybe
you're feeling burnt out, and you're just grateful the week is halfway
over.  Or perhaps you are feeling like Rodney is this morning, who is
feeling so good that he's belting out the alphabet song from bed with
a pride that one might reserve for the national anthem.  Wherever you
land on the spectrum today, welcome to Wednesday.

How about a Miles update?  He's doing well, and filling out into a
happy, chubby little baby.  He likes to pick his head up and look
around the room before dropping it back down to Marissa's shoulder in
exhaustion.  He also likes to make this little noises with his throat
that sort of sound like a chuckle, and I choose to imagine that he's
laughing at his own joke.  And, pardon me for being crass, but the
loudest thing about my baby are still his farts.  On several occasions
already, he's interrupted our dinner with a fart from the other room.

"Miles farts like... that fat guy in the urinal beside you at the
train station," I said at the dinner table squinting, trying to
imagine an apt simile.

_Sip_.  It's probably too early for fart talk.  I won't dwell any
longer on the details.  How about we recap our Tuesday instead?  With
some time to kill in the morning before my bread finished its second
rise, I wanted to take Rodney somewhere scenic to eat breakfast.  But
I didn't quite think it through, and as we were rambling down the
road, I had a sudden horrific realization that I was unconsciously
driving to Target.  Rodney, wearing a crisp, clean pair of pants and
his Bears hoodie excitedly scanned the scene, pivoting his head around
the car.

"Here we are dude!" I exclaimed, braking the car.  "Our mystery
location is... the Target parking lot."

It was hardly a scenic place to eat breakfast, but Rodney and I made
the most of it.  I let him climb into the front seat of the car, and
the two of us bobbed our heads to Rodney's favorite CD and sipped on
our morning beverages like a couple of high school seniors killing
time before class.

"DADA!  EAGLE!"  Rodney extended a tiny finger at the window, pointing
to a hawk gracefully circling a distant corner of the Target parking
lot.

"Oh nice, dude.  That's a _hawk_," I said, taking a swig of coffee.

"No dada," said Rodney, gravely serious.  "_Eagle_."

"OK, dude - I'm not here to argue.  Sure, it's an eagle," I replied,
nodding my head.

Rodney and I finished our breakfast, and after letting him honk the
horn a few times in the front seat and stretch our legs outside, we
headed back home.  We spent the rest of the afternoon hanging around
the house.

"Rodney and I had kind of a crazy morning," I said to Marissa
sarcastically.  "He probably needs to wind down with Blippi or
something."

Marissa took over Rodney duty, leaving me to take a nap, then watch
some French cooking videos.  Yesterday was quiche day, and to sum up -
I am excited about quiche.

"Are you going to make us a quiche tomorrow?" asked Marissa.

"Oh, I'm making a quiche tomorrow, as well as every day after that," I
replied.  "It's the _quiche-a-day_ challenge."  Marissa rolled her
eyes, but I continued the bit anyway.  "So along with baking a loaf of
bread every day, we're also going to eat a quiche every day.  And the
quiche we don't eat, I'm going to mail around the country to all my
friends and family as kind of like an invitation for them to join the
quiche a day challenge.  So you're going to be mailing and eating _a
lot_ of quiche this month - prepare yourself."

We packed the family back in the car to run some errands.  Ironically,
our first stop was Target.  "Dude, what a crazy day," I said to Rodney
into the back seat.  "I can't believe we went to Target twice today."
I parked the car for an online order, and soon, a masked Target
employee wandered out to fill our car with a few bags.  I knew about
the parchment paper and dishwasher pods, but Marissa snuck in a few
extras.

"OK, and then I got the bag of licorice and the inflatable dinosaur,"
said the employee.  "You want that in the back too?"  I gave Marissa a
smile.

"_Inflatable dinosaur_?" I said widening my eyes.  Marissa put her
finger to her mouth, wordlessly saying "quiet - Rodney doesn't know
about it yet."

We grabbed Portillo's on the way home for a quick dinner before our
Tuesday Recker family evening Zoom.  I joined the Zoom session holding
Miles close up to camera to my cooing, adoring family.  And like a
perfect living diorama illustrating the transition to being a second
child, a bored Rodney recklessly threw a ball around the bedroom, out
of focus and eclipsed by his baby brother's head.

"We feel bad for Rodney," shared Marissa in the zoom room.  "We feel
like we just yell at him all day, but he's a good boy and he's trying
his best to be a good older brother."

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I shared a beer in her
basement studio.  "Are you OK with being teased about how little you
have to do these days?" asked Marissa.

"Oh definitely," I replied.  "I would be the first to tease myself.  I
fill my day, but it's all just chores, creative hobbies, and
self-enrichment.  I _really_ don't have much going on."

"Enrichment!" said Marissa.  "Like what they do for animals at the
zoo."  After watching so many of Brookfield Zoo's _Bring the Zoo to
You_ videos, the word painted a vivid analogy.

"That's actually an apt metaphor.  I don't need to make bread, do
push-ups, or practice Dutch, but it makes me feel like I have stuff to
do," I said.  "Like how the zoo lets a lion play with it's food to
make it feel like a hunt."

Journaling is probably a form of enrichment too.  And with the
quarantine probably making us all feel a bit like a caged animal, I
hope you have some special hobbies or routines in your life to make
you feel enriched as well.  Thanks for stopping by this morning - have
a great Wednesday.
