---
title: ginseng, ramen, and bonsai trees
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Happy Friday, and likewise, happy last day of
January. This morning, I hope you are all feeling as good as I am. My
soar throat is a distant memory, and at this point I'm just dealing with
a *booger* situation.

I felt well enough to go to work yesterday, but I was still teased for
showing up. Catching me making sniffling sounds at morning stand-up, the
team gave me some light harassment about coming into work and
threatening their health. "No seriously, I feel great - I wouldn't be
here if I did," I contested. "Are you sure?" replied my boss. "Because
you even look kind of sick."

"Well now I have no choice but to be offended, since this is what I look
like when I feel good," I shot back. I still did my best to keep out of
peoples' way, opening doors with my feet and washing my hands every time
I passed the sink. That coronavirus must have people on high alert for
any kind of disease. In fact, my work just announced that anyone who has
been to China recently needs to work from home for the same amount of
time. Luckily, I didn't have coronavirus.

After stand-up, my coworker Fong kindly offered me some ginseng. Fong is
from China, and I've come to learn that the Chinese take tea very
seriously. I've written before about team "tea time", in which Fong
shows up her elaborate ritual for brewing matcha. She handed me a small
silver tin with a dozen little brown twigs rolling around inside. "Pick
three good ones, put them in some hot water, and add a little bit of
honey," she instructed. The tea was so powerful, I could have sworn the
inside of my mouth went numb, and all at once I felt a tremendous burst
of productive energy. I spent the rest of the morning writing code at my
desk, enjoying the clean caffeine buzz of pure ginseng before I got up
to make some lunch.

I heated up a bowl of Korean instant ramen in the kitchen and returned
to my desk. I hadn't had this ramen in a while. Korean ramen activates
memories of working at Healthgrades. Before I cooked so much, I used to
fill my cubicle cabinet with packets of instant Korean ramen, each with
their own interesting colors, graphics, and seasoning packets. I still
enjoy it every once in a while. Unlike the cheap maruchan stuff you'd
buy at Target, Korean instant ramen is closer to a real meal. I took the
bowl of spicy noodles to my desk, enjoying some YouTube videos, then
winding down with a bottle of iced tea.

I had some meetings, then concluded the day with a short coding war
room, where Fong, Alex, and I performed a data migration that was on the
complicated side and needed more than just one set of eyes. I ducked out
just in time to jump on the bus homeward.

Back at home, I triumphantly rolled my backpack on the ground and
collapsed onto the couch, where Marissa was sleeping with Ziggy under
the blanket. I proceeded to surf some YouTube videos, soaking up the
extra time between coming home and going out to eat. Marissa awoke to me
watching an interview with Jay Cutler. "This interview was
dissapointing," I griped. "I don't know why everyone was going nuts
about it on reddit, it's just Jay Cutler bragging about how he would
probably be really good at olympic handball."

Rodney awoke, and after I got him out of bed, he too joined us on the
couch. We packed the dogs away and jumped in the car, bound for
Portillo's. "I haven't eaten much this week," I said to Marissa while we
were waiting in line to order. "I think I'm going to get the ribs."
Marissa smiled in approval.

After finishing up at Portillo's, we jumped back in the car and drove to
Target. Marissa needed to return something, and I suggested we pick up a
gallon of milk. As usual on Thursdays, we also decided to tool around
the toy aisle and let Rodney check out the monster trucks and nerf guns.
His eye was drawn to the shoulder mounted sniper rifle nerf gun, which
in the box, was about as long as he is tall. "Rodney, if you can pick
that up and point it at me, I'll buy it for you on the spot," teased
Marissa. I very much wanted to holder her to that. I've always been a
fan of Rodney owning humongous toys that are inappropriate for his age.
You might recall that I bought him a Xena Warrior Princess sword that
made sound effects when he was only two. And just as a two year old with
a sword amused me, so did Rodney owning a high powered nerf sniper
rifle. But despite our best efforts, I couldn't get him to hold up the
heavy rifle, and we had to leave it at the store.

We headed home, and after putting Rodney to bed, I practiced Dutch,
knocked out my push-ups and sit-ups, then trotted upstairs to rewire my
IT shelf. After discovering that the software I was using on my router
could run off of a tiny USB stick, I realized I didn't need the bulky
metal case around the motherboard and could throw away the cheap hard
drive. I unboxed a new much simpler open case, which was just a piece of
Plexiglas and screws that held the motherboard an inch above the shelf.
"Wow," remarked Marissa as I was assembling it at my desk. "That looks
so much better."

I spent the rest of the evening installing the software and wrapping
cables, making an effort to demonstrate more patience. Instead of
wrapping every cable in tight coils around my fist, I tried to
compromise with where the cable wanted to lie naturally, and I think it
made the whole set up look more relaxed and free. It sort of reminded me
of the scene from Karate Kid where Mr. Miyagi is showing Daniel how to
prune a bonsai tree. Wrapping cables is much the same.

I booted the wall back up. Fans whirred. Lights flickered. "Plex is
working," Marissa hollered from downstairs. I raised my hands above my
head in satisfaction. "Practically a perfect game," I boasted. I just
love it when you can turn things off and on, and they go back to doing
what they were meant to do.

I hope you all have a wonderful Friday. I'm looking forward to hanging
out with Rodney this weekend while Marissa is at an agility trial, and
of course watching the Superbowl this Sunday. Godspeed, Jimmy Garoppolo.
I know you'll make the northwest suburbs proud.

