---
title: anger poops, espagnole sauce, and feeling overwhelmed
banner: 2020-07-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  How's your Tuesday treating you?  Today,
Marissa is up a little earlier than usual with Miles, no doubt woken
up by all the extra drama in our house.  This morning, after Rodney
had finished his food, I sent him on a simple errand upstairs.

"See this water bowl?" I said, holding up the porcelain dish.  "Do you
know where this goes?"

Rodney, still carrying a few crumbs from his cereal bar on his chin,
nodded.

"Take this upstairs, fill it with water, and set it out for the
puppies," I said, without breaking eye contact.  Rodney nodded, and
supplying his own _wooshing_ sound, he was off.

I poured another cup of coffee and returned to my notes at the
computer, but the alone time I normally cherish while Rodney is off on
an adventure was cut short.  From upstairs, I heard a splash, a slip,
a thud, and vigorous crying.  I sprang up from my chair and briskly
climbed the stairs, finding Rodney on the bathroom floor.

"What happened, dude?" I said picking him up.

"Just fell a little bit," said Rodney, sputtering tears.  As I
consoled him, I noticed the water bowl, filled with water, sitting in
the exactly correct spot on our bedroom floor.

"Dude, you nailed it," I said.  "So what happened?  Did you just slip
on some water?"

"Yeah, I wanna get my blanket a _lil' bit_," sobbed Rodney.

Rodney settled in onto the couch, dabbing his tears with his blanket.
I put on the _dinosaur episode_ of Paw Patrol, and all at once
everything was made right again in his little world.  I sighed, and
began to walk back to the computer.

"NO!" I yelled, standing in the living room with my hands on my hips,
staring at two crusty pieces of dog poop lying squarely in the center
of Miles' tummy time mat.

"Zig Zig pooped, dad," said Rodney without turning his head.  "Clean
it up.  Get the Windex."

"Yeah I know what I'm doing," I muttered, waving off Rodney's
instructions.

This wasn't a random act of defecation.  This was one of Ziggy's anger
poops - the second anger poop in a series of retaliation.  Ziggy has
developed a bad table surfing habit, and last night catching her
standing on top the table helping herself to bread crumbs and drops of
tomato sauce, I put my foot down, scolding her with my angry father
voice and exiling her to the backyard.  She stewed on the deck,
eyeballing me through the glass door.  When I was satisfied with her
punishment, I invited her back into the house.  We made amends and she
climbed in my lap while we watched a movie.

But with this second anger poop, the father-daughter struggle has been
re-ignited.  The worst part about these anger poops is just the sheer
cockiness of where she places them.  They're not hidden in the corner
or lying in the shadow of the dining room table.  They're _presented_
to you, either on something you care about or somewhere where you'll
notice.  This morning, dead center of Miles' silly turtle play mat,
like she was hitting a bulls eye.

_Sip_.  This morning sounds like it was hectic, but I assure you, I'm
having a good chuckle making it sound worse than it was.  I'm still
right where I need to be, listening to Marvin Gaye in a sunny dining
room with a hot cup of coffee.

Yesterday was the bad day.  I selected a tricky recipe from my French
cooking course - Hunter's chicken.  Browned pieces of chicken braised
in a French tomato sauce.

The recipe was built around the _Espagnole_ sauce, which is just a
French interpretation of the tomato based sauces that were popular in
Spain at the time.  The sauce called for vegetables sweated in butter
and pork, turned to a roux with toasted flour, deglazed with whie
wine, and finally baked with a reduced brown stock and some crushed
tomatoes.  And that's just the sauce.  Once it's finished, strained
and set aside, it's reduced even further to braise the chicken.

I was feeling up for the challenge.  Marissa offered to cook Tuesday's
dinner, and this recipe would be a good chance to go out on a bang
before my day off.  I filled out a grocery order on Hy-Vee, and later
that afternoon, Rodney and I jumped in the car to pick everything up.

Returning home, while sifting through the groceries I discovered that
half of my order was missing - the good half.  There were no canned
tomatoes, bags of whole wheat flour, or garlic.

"What's wrong," said Marissa coming up the stairs from the gallery.

"Hy-Vee missed half my order," I said.  "I probably don't have time to
go back, so I just circled everything on the receipt."

"Want me to call them?" said Marissa.

"That would be amazing," I sighed.  Marissa has a gift for getting
shopping restitution.  I knew that even a customer support system as
dysfunctional as the East side Hy-Vee was no match for her gentle,
long-suffering spirit.

"They just put it back on our card," she said.  "I'll see if I can
find any of this stuff at Target."

With an entire hour of dinner prep lost, it became clear the Espagnole
sauce in its full, textbook form was not happening.  I devised a way
to do a much quicker single pot version, beginning with browning the
chicken thighs.

Marissa crossed the kitchen, placing Miles in his chair.  "It is OK if
I leave him here while you cook?  I'm spray painting down stairs."

"Yeah, that's cool," I said.  "I like when he sits in here."

Rodney, playing computer games in the dining room began to yell.
"DADA!  CHOCOLATE MILK!"  Marissa wrinkled her nose in confusion.

"I brought him chocolate milk once while he was playing games, and now
he thinks it's like a regular thing," I explained.  "NO chocolate
milk," I shouted back.

I resumed cooking.  At first I used too much oil browning the chicken,
so I dabbed up the excess with a paper towel.  Then it was _not
enough_ oil.  The thigh skin shriveled, sticking to the bottom of the
pan like a little circular bandaid.  I retrieved the skinless chicken
from the pot, then fished out the skin, setting it on top the thighs
like a sad little hat.

Next came the vegetables.  I made the mistake of over estimating the
amount I'd need, and consequently I had a hard time keeping the heat
up - so much so that when it came time to deglaze the roux with wine,
it didn't fizzle.  Just a sad, cold _sploosh_ - the signature move of
my past dinner disasters.  I started to feel frustrated, just as Miles
started to cry.

I lowered the chicken into the liquid.  Probably accounting for the
excess of vegetables, I also had an excess of broth, and the liquid
that was only supposed to reach half way up the chicken completely
engulfed it, like a soup.  In a huff, I slammed the lid shut and slid
it into the oven.

Miles began to scream.  Rodney was still beckoning for chocolate milk
in the dining room.  Wringing my hands, I sheepishly called down to
the art studio for back up.  "I'm a little overwhelmed," I said,
handing Miles over to Marissa.

After taking some time to collect my thoughts and calm down on the
deck, I removed the pot from the oven and reduced the sauce.  Despite
everything that had gone wrong, it wasn't the utter disaster I had
feared.

"I know it didn't turn out the way you wanted, but this is really
good," said Marissa.

"You should taste what I was trying to make sometime," I laughed.
"Nah, but you're right.  This turned out pretty good.  And thanks for
backing me up in there, I haven't had a moment like that in a while."

"I was proud of how you handled that," said Marissa.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
