---
title: teammates, meetings, and rodney's face
banner: 2020-09-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy _vrijdag_.  Glorious Friday.  Perfect
Friday.  The vanquisher of the work week.  The golden gates open,
ushering us into a blissful realm of naps, TV, beer, and football.

How is everyone doing today?  I'm feeling good today, but I shouldn't
have taken my cup of coffee in the shower.  Every time I do that, I
start day dreaming and end up taking too long to get ready in the
morning.  As I write, I have one eye on this paragraph and the other
on the little digital clock in the corner of my computer screen.  I
have just shy of an hour to crank out this blog post and jump online
for an early morning riveting session of story backlog grooming with
my team.

As you might remember, I came back from paternity leave to a team that
was twice its size since I left.  The new faces and personalities in
our dynamic overwhelmed me at first, but like most people I work with,
they're kind, knowledgeable, focused, and they can crack a joke.
Dakota, Anthony, Brook, Sathish, and Dang, I'm glad you're on the
team.

And if there existed the perfect day to familiarize myself with our
new teammates, it was yesterday.  I jumped online at my regular time
with a cup of coffee in hand ready to put on some music, go over my
calendar, and prune my personal notes for the day.  That's when I
noticed a single giant meeting spanning the entire day, starting
fifteen minutes ago.

It's complicated.  But our team decided to pivot on a project we were
working on, and to sum up we had a lot to figure out in a very short
amount of time.  The meeting was a _zoom bridge_ - our term for a
placeholder meeting room that allows people to drift in and out as we
work on a single goal.

We adjourned for lunch time.  I joined Marissa and Rodney in the
kitchen.

"What's going on up there?" asked Marissa.  "Is everything OK?"

"Yeah, everything is good," I chuckled wearily.  "Just work stuff.
But I am in that meeting pretty much all day, and we have a lot to
do."

"You can have the soup," said Marissa without hesitating.

"Oh thank God," I sighed.  "You are a saint."  I was secretly hoping I
could lay claim to our single serving of squash soup in the fridge.
Talking, listening, explaining, visualizing, asking questions - after
four hours, my brain was tired.  I felt like a battered prize fighter
clinging to the ropes in my corner, hoping for a second wind.
Carrying a bowl of soup, a few _stukjes brood_, and the remainder of a
little can of herring in white wine sauce that was languishing in the
back of our fridge, I trudged back up the stairs.

Marissa grabbed my arm just before I disappeared into my office.

"Did you see what Rodney did in his room?" she laughed.

"No what?" I said, smiling.

"Come here - let me show you," she said, leading me across the
hallway.  I peered into his room.  At first, nothing caught my eye.
K'nex pieces lying on the floor.  Old tattered issues of _Highlights_
lying on his bed.  And then I saw it - the face.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-11/face.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 11 face" src="/images/2020-09-11/face.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I jumped.  "AH!  Oh wow, that's something."

"Rodney drew it," smiled Marissa.

There on his little whiteboard was a giant face.  The top and sides of
the bulbous, lumpy head touched the edges of the wood frame.  Two
misshapen eyes with silly little pupils rolling in different
directions.  A single black dot for a nose, and a big smarmy smirk
from cheek to cheek.  I also counted _three_ ears.

"DADA I DREW IT," said Rodney.  "It's MEEEEEEEE."  Rodney slid into
the hallway, his arms spread wide.

"Dude that's awesome," I said, congratulating him.  He scampered away,
leaving Marissa and I in his room.  We lingered a little longer,
admiring the face like a piece of art.

"It's hard to explain why it's so unsettling," I said.

"Oh I know," said Marissa.  "Yet I can't look away."

"I think it's because... it's so far the most complete thing to come
directly out of his brain?  I mean, it's the first time he's ever
really drawn anything like this - a glimpse into how his brain works.
It's amusing, but it's also kind of startling, like seeing a stranger
in your house."

I wolfed down my lunch at my desk, the rejoined our meeting.  Amidst
the continued planning and discussions, Rodney's silly whiteboard face
lurked in the back of my memory.  A few times, I even had to mute my
microphone so my team wouldn't hear me seemingly laugh at nothing.

Our team was tired.  Spending the entire day in discussion together,
we all looked like we were ready to shut our brains off for a while.
"See ya tomorrow, teamies - nice work today," I said before signing
off.  I happily shut my laptop and started on dinner.  I made ragout,
this time with chuck roast.  Seared beef, carrots, potato, and I also
completely cleared out what was left in our shelf of onions and
shallots.

"Thanks for cooking today," said Marissa.  "I was expecting you to
shoot me a slack with your pizza order."

"Oh it's no problem - I felt like cooking," I said.  Truthfully, it
was such a long day - on top of a long week - that a pizza wasn't
going to cut it.  My tired brain demanded stew.  I needed _ragout_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-11/stew.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 11 stew" src="/images/2020-09-11/stew.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Dada, what's this?" said Rodney, stabbing at a slice of purple
carrot.

"That's a carrot, dude," I replied.  "The carrots I used today were
different colors.  There was a yellow one, a red one, and that's a
purple one."

"They're really cool," said Marissa.

"Yeah, I like how they kind trick you into thinking there's more
vegetables in here," I laughed.

I put Rodney to bed.  We read the story _Llama LLama, Red Pajama_, and
I was so tired that after the last page, I said "amen".  Rodney shot
me a confused look.

"Sorry dude - I don't know why I thought we were praying," I laughed.
"Now let's actually do prayers."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day today.
