---
title: a frosty six pack, something mighty, and my new laptop
banner: 2020-12-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Friday, everyone, and merry Christmas.  You know for as chaotic
as December can get between decorating, buying gifts, and organizing
time with friends and family, I forget about how wonderful Christmas
day is.  For that, I have our family tradition to thank.  Every year,
we go out of our way to ensure we have no social obligations on
Christmas.  We stay in our pajamas all day.  We open presents, watch
movies, and eat junk food.  If this terrible year has been good for
anything, it's doing just that.  That just sounds like a regular day
in quarantine, huh?

"What a wonderful day," said Marissa.  "It's kind of funny how this
felt like a normal Christmas."

We all slept in today.  While digging our coffee pot out of the mound
of dirty dishes in the sink, I noticed a six pack of beer sitting on
our deck.  Our neighbors Mark and Tracy left some Spotted Cow next to
a card, and by the time I got to it the winter chill had seductively
frosted the bottles, making it nearly impossible not to partake.

"Aww, that's the most Wisconsin gift ever," said Marissa.  "What does
the card say?"

I picked up the card to read it aloud.  "_It's nice having good
neighbors_ - short and sweet... you know I could totally picture Mark
saying that."

Santa was good to us this morning.  At our hearth stood a tall bottle
of tequila, bags of candy, matching _Dude Perfect_ shirts, and even
more Paw Patrol paraphernalia to help Rodney sink even further into
his week long Paw Patrol Mighty Pups haze.  My favorite sound byte of
slipped out when he was ripping open one of his gifts under the tree.
Seeing hte bright blue label and smiling dog face, he blurted out
"OPE!  I think it's something _mighty_."

_I think it's something mighty_ would be the catch phrase we echoed to
each other the rest of the day.

Marissa opened up her gift from us boys.  Inside the humble wrapping
job was some paints, a paint brush mount, and a card with a collage of
Marissa's favorite things.  The "favorite things" collage was a
technique that my sisters and I used to use on the birthday cards we
made for each other.  All you do is copy paste a bunch of images into
a Word document and space things out so they can be seen all at once.
The end result, unfolding a single piece of paper with your favorite
music, hobbies, snacks, sports, and tv shows, produces a really fun
unexpected dopamine rush.  Marissa's collage bore representation by
everything from Kanye West, to goldfish crackers, to Bob's Burgers.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-25-collage.png">
<img alt="2020 12 25 collage" src="/images/2020-12-25-collage.png"/>
</a>
</figure>

I opened a new food processor from Santa.  "I told Santa that it had
to be _small_," said Marissa.  "He understood how stressed about space
you were in the kithen."

Marissa handed me one final present.  It was a square present, and
unbeknownst to her I had been mentally sizing up the present all week,
trying to imagine how my wishlist-topping Thinkpad X250 laptop would
fit inside.  Marissa's lips curled in a knowing smile as I opened the
box.  A bottle of cognac sat inside.

"Oh wow," I gasped.  "This... looks really nice."

"Turn the bottle around," said Marissa.  There was a piece of paper
taped to the bottle that read _look inside the ottoman_."  Shocked, I
rose to my feet and flipped open the ottoman I was sitting on.  I
squealed.  Inside was a new laptop and charger each wrapped with a red
bow.  Suddenly, I took on the same blissful look that Rodney had in
his eyes, the two of us wanting to do nothing but delve into our new
toys.

"So there's something I don't get," said Marissa.  "If this is an old
computer, how does it look so new?"

"Well, what happens is that companies will buy these in bulk, and they
don't always get a chance to hand them all out before it's time to
upgrade again.  So these companies just sell the old models that were
never used, and thus the market is always flooded with old Thinkpads
in perfect condition."

To the untrained eye, my new laptop is identical to my last Thinkpad.
It was probably even the same price.  But there are new loving details
to explore.  The screen is newer and brighter.  The trackpad is more
spacious.  And the machine is so much lighter.  I spent pretty much
the rest of the day setting up my new machine.  I'm blogging on it
right now.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-25-laptop.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 25 laptop" src="/images/2020-12-25-laptop.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Ziggy says it's even warmer than the last model too.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

We heated up fish stew for a quick lunch.  Rodney finished up by
himself at the table, and Marissa told me later that he tried to prank
us.

"We left our drinks at the table," said Marissa.  "And I saw something
floating around.  Rodney told me it was a _crunch_."

"What's a _crunch_?" I asked.

"I thought it was a bug, but it was just an almond.  And he put a tiny
baby clam in your water."

For dinner, we appropriately made a Sicilian Christmas pizza.  After
letting old Christmas movies run all day in the living room through
napping and playing, we capped off the night with a new movie,
spinning up Disney's new _Soul_.  It looked promising, but things took
an odd turn halfway through the movie.  Rodney was so disturbed that
when given the choice to stay up and keep watching, he chose instead
to just go up to bed.

"This movie makes me feel _kinda weird_," said Rodney.

"Yeah?" I asked, tucking him into bed.  "What was the weirdest part?"

Rodney shot up in bed, undoing the covers I had just tucked in.  "It
was _REALLY WEIRD_ when the blue guy fell..." Rodney whistled and
mimed the scene where the main character fell to earth.  "And then he
fell into a cat," shrugged Rodney.

"It is a weird movie," I laughed.  "Don't worry about that one, dude,
we're probably not going to be watching it again."

It was a wonderful Christmas.  Hope you had a great Christmas too.
See you tomorrow, everyone, and enjoy your weekend.
