---
title: curbside pickup, poached fish, and practice cake
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  Fill up your favorite mug
with a fresh cup of coffee and find something to stimulate your brain
into wakefulness.  That's easy for me to say, but truthfully I
probably just yawned three times while typing this paragraph.  Marissa
and I were up late decorating the house and making provisions for
Rodney's birthday.  We hung banners and posters, set out his presents,
and blew up exactly as many balloons as Ziggy would allow us to - just
one.

Snacks, games, presents, and prizes - we have a fun day planned for
Rodney, but while getting the house ready, I couldn't help but wonder
what Rodney's _actual_ perfect day would look like.

"I bet if we just did regular stuff, but referred to him as _sir_ all
day and let him eat on the couch, he would talk about it for the rest
of the year," I laughed.

"What if we just ate _crappy bars_ for breakfast, lunch, and dinner,"
laughed Marissa.

"We can just set out a giant platter of crappy bars and eat them all
day," I added.  "And then we could just sit around with long socks on
our hands.

Today is Rodney's actual birthday.  And since the real family parties
aren't until this weekend, we're treating this like a dry run as well
as an opportunity to have some smaller, private birthday fun.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  While I cleaned the house,
Rodney polished off a _crappy bar_ and chased me around the kitchen.
Later in the morning, I set him up on the couch.  He was in the mood
to try a new TV show, so the two of us enjoyed a few episodes of
_Batman Beyond_.  It's kind of a neat premise - it's about how a young
hot shot kid stumbles into the bat cave where a grumpy, very elderly
Bruce Wayne reluctantly takes him under his wing.  The important part
is that the new Batman drives a motorcycle, and truthfully that was
all that Rodney needed to see.

For lunch, we threw together some turkey sandwiches and picked at the
leftover pork, potatoes, and sprouts that were sitting in our fridge.
I treated Rodney to a glass of chocolate milk.

"MORE MILK PLEASE," he yelled, slamming down his glass.  I hadn't even
sat down at the table to start eating.

"Is he really finished?" I laughed.  Marissa picked up his glass and
shook it.  Empty.

"Dada more chocolate milk?" begged Rodney.

"You can have _water_," I corrected him.

"Chocolate water?" Rodney asked.

I laughed.  "Well, would that be crazy?" I pondered aloud.  "It's just
chocolate sauce, I suppose you could mix it with anything."

Marissa retched at the thought of _chocolate water_.  "Please don't
make that a thing," she pleaded.  "I don't want another _icecream
milk_ incident."

"Hey," I said leaning around the corner into the dining room.
"Icecream milk was a huge hit.  You know he still asks me for that
sometimes?"

"Of course he does," laughed Marissa.  "It's just a glass of milk with
a scoop of icecream in it."

After wrapping up lunch, we packed the car and embarked on a long
errand day.  Between party decorations, shipping supplies, and
groceries, we had a least five different stores we needed to hit - and
thanks to the modern day miracle of curbside pickup, we hit all these
without even getting out of the car.

"I like this a lot better than regular shopping," said Marissa.

I'm a little torn on curbside pickup.  I love the ritual of walking up
and down the aisles at Hy-Vee, and I enjoy the sovereignty of picking
my own vegetables, fruit, and meat.  But a shopping day like the one
we had yesterday would have taken us pretty much the rest of the day
if we were on foot, and it's hard to complain about making that much
ground without even getting out of the car.  I didn't even have my
shoes on.  I guess at a certain point, it's naive and perhaps a little
selfish to turn your back on technical progress just for the sake of
preserving a beloved ritual.  Long live curbside pickup.  I'm sure
I'll find a new ritual.

The long afternoon shopping excursion left little time for rest.
After putting Rodney in his room and taking a quick timeout to unwind,
I jumped in the kitchen to start on dinner.  The other day, while
perusing through my online French Cooking course, I noticed a whole
section of final challenge recipes.  My enthusiasm for the course kind
of fizzled out last month, and while I probably wouldn't go through
the trouble of making official photographed submissions for the
certificate, I would be remiss if I didn't at least try one of these
dishes off the final exam.

And so yesterday's meal was _Filets de Poissons Duglere_, or poached
cod finished in a white wine reduction.  The recipe appeared simple at
first glance, but slowly as I progressed through the steps of
buttering my biggest frying pan, arranging the fish on a bed of thinly
diced onions and shallots, things got hectic.  The trickiest part of
all was finishing the sauce.  While the fish was still warm, the
recipe called for the broth to be reduced to half the amount - the
diced tomato garnish collected in a sieve, then re-added at the end.
The recipe was difficult, but all in all, successful.

{% include figure.html
filename='poached-fish.jpg'
caption='Not pictured: a kitchen buried in dirty dishes and a patient,
hungry family waiting at the table.' %}

After a zoom session with the family, we put Rodney to bed, then
Marissa and I started working on Rodney's decorations.

"So you have to bake a cake next?" I asked.  "Would you like me to
_mis en place_?"

"That would be great, actually," said Marissa, busy filling in the
webbing on the giant Spider-Man cutout.

I read the cake recipe and proudly laid out all the ingredients on my
cutting board.

"You made this so easy," said Marissa joining me at the counter.  "I
can literally just throw the cake together."  I sipped a beer while
Marissa flicked through the recipe on her phone.  She mixed the batter
and poured it into two cake molds.

"That's funny," she said.  "It doesn't _look_ that chocolatey.  You
measured out the cocoa powder?"

"Yeah - you were using cocoa powder instead of espresso powder, so one
teaspoon," I added defensively.

"I was skipping the espresso powder and just adding _more_ cocoa
powder," Marissa cautiously corrected.

"Uh oh," I said.  I looked at the recipe over her shoulder.  "OK, so I
shorted you by... three quarters of a cup.  That's probably where all
the chocolate went."  That just figures - I was so blinded by
confidence after the successful intermediate French entree, I omitted
most of the chocolate from a simple chocolate cake recipe.

"It's OK," said Marissa.  "This is just the practice cake."

"And plus, we're just eating crappy bars all day tomorrow, right?"

Thanks for stopping by today.  If you happen to see my son, wish him a
happy birthday today.
