---
title: wings, doctor visits, shots, and smoothies
banner: 2020-07-14.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  It feels good to be waking up
at more regular hours, joining the work week with the rest of you.  To
set the scene here, it's a cool morning.  The air outside smells like
rain, and there is a loaf of bread proofing on our deck railing that
I'm sure is just loving the humid air.

_Sip_.  Yesterday morning was a struggle.  Despite sleeping in as long
as my body wanted, I could barely muster the energy to write and
reflect, let alone put anything away.  Feeling defeated, I rested my
cup of coffee on the shelf and slumped backwards onto the couch to
join the rest of my family.

"I just can't wake up today," I griped.  "I don't know if I'm still
tired from the parties this weekend, or if I just relaxed a little too
much yesterday."

Rodney stared forward, affixed to the TV.  Marissa tiredly rubbed her
eyes.

"I'm there with you," she said.  "I'm not feeling it today.  I'm glad
we're having a lazy day."

"Can today be one of those McDonald's Uber eats lunches?" I asked.

"Way ahead of you," she said, pulling out her phone.  I rubbed my
eyes, then pulling up twitter, spent a few minutes wandering around my
feed.

"I did something a little different," said Marissa, setting her phone
on her lap.  "I ordered from _Wing Stop_."

"Ooh, wings?" I exclaimed.

"Yeah," answered Marissa.  "I've been wanting to try that place.  I
ordered _a lot of wings_ by the way."  I grunted indifferently,
finishing the cold coffee at the bottom of my mug.

It's still contested whether or not ordering so many wings for lunch
was a good decision.  Later that day, Marissa and I would spar over
the it.

"Wings were a huge mistake," I said, holding my gut.

"I thought they were good, if I'm being honest," replied Marissa.
"Yours were gross, but you always get the _really_ hot ones."

"So you're not with me that it was a _mistake_, but you have to
admit - it was a weird move for us.  Forty spicy chicken wings is not
a typical lunch around here," I laughed.

"OK fine," laughed Marissa.  "It was a weird lunch.  But I don't
regret it."

After packing away some leftovers, Rodney and I headed out of the
house to go to his doctor's appointment.  Today, he was to get two
immunizations.

"You know what's going on today, dude?" I asked.  "You're getting a
shot - just a lil' poke - then you're getting a mango smoothie."

"No - no lil' poke," answered Rodney.  "Just a smoothie."

I pressed, trying to make it clear that the mango smoothie was a
_reward_ for the shot, and not just a suggested pairing of
activities.  The truth finally sunk in.

"OK," said Rodney.  "Just a little poke.  Then a _BIG_ smoothie.  With
a piece of candy on top."

Rodney and I checked into the clinic.  He was first seen by a nurse,
who handed me an elaborate questionnaire meant to assess how Rodney
was developing.  There were four pages of questions, surrounding
things like _does your child use verb tenses?_ and _can you child
brush their teeth on their own, even if you have to do it again?_.
After nearly completing the first page, it became clear that I was
supposed to actually be asking Rodney these questions.  The form read
_record your child's answers here_.

Rodney had stripped down to his pull-ups, and after reluctantly
putting on the open back gown, sat patiently on the bed.

"Rodney," I said, breaking the deafening silence of the exam room.
"Are you a _boy_ or a _girl_?"

"Um..." Rodney rocked back and forth with his legs tucked underneath
him.  "Nope."

I repeated the question.  "Rodney - are you a boy or a girl?"

"Nope," he answered.

"Are you a boy?" I asked.

"Nope."

"Are you a girl?"

"Nope."

"Well this is going to go great," I muttered to myself.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/nope.jpg">
    <img alt="nope" src="/images/nope.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>"Nope."</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

There was a polite knock on the door before a medical student
entered.  He introduced himself, and explained that he was going to be
conducting the beginning of the check-up on Rodney.  Unprompted,
Rodney raised his gown over his head and lied back on the table.

The medical student gently prodded sections of Rodney's belly.  "Does
this hurt, Rodney?" He asked.

"Yeah," replied Rodney insincerely.  "Hurts."

"How about this," he said, moving to a different part of his abdomen.

"Yeah," he replied again.  "Hurts."  Though the medical student was
wearing a face shield and a mask, I could see the concern developing
in his eyes.  And even though I was amused watching someone else
struggle to interpret Rodney's mental machinery, I decided to throw
him a bone.

"Rod, does it hurt, or is it _gentle_?" I asked, out of turn.

"Gentle," said Rodney.

"He does better with choices," I laughed.  "Other wise he just kind of
repeats things."

The medical student checked Rodney's ears.  Rodney wrinkled his nose
and laughed as he moved in with the little viewing probe.  The doctor
confidently entered.

"Rodney, are you a boy or a girl," she asked.

"Nope," said Rodney.

"Rodney, are you a _boy_," she said with emphasis.  "Or a girl?"

"Nope," said Rodney.

"How about your dad?  Is he a boy?  Or a girl?" said the doctor.

"Boy," replied Rodney.  I exhaled in relief.

"He's been a big fan of _nope_ lately, sorry about that," I said.

"And you had ear tubes put in, didn't you?" she asked.  "Have the
tubes fallen out yet?

"We haven't seen them, but I assume they fell out.  It's been a
while," I answered without conviction.  The doctor inserted a probe of
her own into Rodney's ear.  Rodney wrinkled his nose and laughed
nervously.

"There it is," she said.  "It's still hanging out in the ear canal.
Rodney, I'm going to have my friend here take another look again."

The medical student anxiously took the doctor's place.  "It's in the
ear canal," she said.  "Bright blue.  Can't miss it."

"BRIGHT BLUE," Rodney repeated, like he was participating in the mild
hazing.

The doctor finished her examination.  Two nurses replaced her in the
room and swiftly gave Rodney two shots on the thigh.  Rodney had a
short burst of tears, but quickly composed himself while changing out
of his gown.  "I go look at fish now," he said, still shedding tears.

"Fish?" I asked.  We stepped out of the hallway, and Rodney b-lined to
a colorful fishtank in front of the reception desk.  "Ahh - that
tank."

"Where's your brother, Rodney?" asked the lady at the desk.

"He's at home now," answered Rodney.  She nodded at Rodney like they
were old friends.  I took a spot beside Rodney at the counter and
waited.  As I continued to wait, I handed Rodney my camera so he could
take some pictures of the fish.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rodney-fishtank-1.jpg">
    <img alt="rodney fishtank 1" src="/images/rodney-fishtank-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I love letting Rodney take pictures.  The first time it happened, it
was quite a shock.  Even if he can barely operate a camera on his own,
and there is always an element of accident to his work, I think it
does still capture his small, close-up perspective on things.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rodney-fishtank-2.jpg">
    <img alt="rodney fishtank 2" src="/images/rodney-fishtank-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"So I check out, here, right?" I asked.

"Oh I'm sorry - I thought you guys were just looking at the fish," the
administrator said.  "You check on the other side of the doors."

Rodney and I picked up a smoothie and a cup of coffee for Mom.  And on
an impulse, I made my second poor eating decision that day.

"Yeah, and I'll take one of those _Hydrating SPORTea_ drinks," I said,
reading off the advertisement.  "The mango one.  Gimme a large."  That
underwhelming sugary tea, in combination with the assenine amount of
hot wings I ate for lunch, was probably the culprit of my all day
indigestion.

Rodney made it way to the couch to finish his smoothie while watching
Blippi.  Marissa asked about his appointment.

"That place is confusing," I laughed.  "You know I stood next to the
fish tank for like two minutes before she sent me to the other side of
the doors."

"Oh yeah," laughed Marissa.  "And it says really big on the door
_don't leave until you check out_.  I don't blame you."

"But I love watching Rodney answer questions and follow instructions
from a doctor," I laughed.  "You should have seen him with the medical
student.  I'd watch that over TV any day."

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
