---
title: music, conflict, and the tiny octopus
banner: 2020-12-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends.  Happy Friday.  What a relief to finally make
it to the end of this week.  A short workday from now, good things
await us.  Naps, recreation, and time with family.  I'm looking
forward to the weekend - I feel like I've earned it.

In terms of music, what a bevy of new selections we woke up to this
morning!  Kid Cudi released his long awaited _Man on the Moon_ sequel.
Clicking through the twenty second previews on Apple music last night,
I was pleasantly surprised to find that it sounds pretty good.  Kid
Cudi is one of those artists that I don't often listen to (especially
the recent stuff), but I'm rooting for him.  I'm glad that things have
been picking up for him after a long dry spell in his career, and even
more glad that this album is listenable.

Rejoice, swifties.  T-swizzlets.  Taylor nation.  A surprise sequel to
the brooding pop & folk fusion album _folklore_.  First and foremost,
thank you Taylor Swift for giving me the exact amount of time I needed
to accept that _folklore_ is a good album before expanding it with a
sequel.  I resisted at first.  The album _folklore_ wormed its way
into my life, and Stockholm syndrome be damned, it's here to stay.
Having just redeclared my citizenship in Taylor Nation, I'm here for
_evermore_.

In terms of music quality, I think there's a combination of things
making Taylor Swift's stock go up.  Taylor is maturing.  She's
figuring out how to add depth to her lyrics without losing connection
with her core fan base.  Her fans are also growing up, and like a kind
of symbiosis this might be giving her room to explore some less
innocent subject matter and slip in the occasional cuss word.  She's
also surrounding herself with good talent in both features and in
music production.  Even if you haven't come around to _Lover_ and
_folklore_, you'd have to admit that everything she makes is just like
ice cream for your ears.  Even the songs I don't like sound so good.

Taylor Swift.  What a roller coaster.  I look back on a time when she
was still writing country music, and I had a giant Taylor Swift poster
on my dorm wall.  I liked her music, but not enough to warrant putting
a poster on my wall.  If I'm being honest, that was more of an ironic
funny college guy thing - a running gag based on a half truth.

It's always sad when new music drops this late in the year after I've
already whittled down my favorites for the year.  Some albums just
kind of fall through the cracks.  Last year it was Kanye West's _Jesus
Is Born_.  This year, it might be the Kid Cudi album.

_Sip_.  How is the music in your life treating you?  Do you pledge
allegiance to the Taylor Swift nation?  And how did your Thursday go?

Yesterday was kind of a tough day.  I can't go into specifics, but I
raised some conflict at work.  Something happened in a way that I
didn't like, and after processing it all week I decided to channel my
frustration into something constructive.

I refilled coffee.  I shut my door.  I fired up the pomodoro timer.  I
wrote some questions into a google doc and would spend the next half
hour staring at them.  I imagined how it would feel hearing every word
on the page, and deleted the phrases that felt loaded or judgemental.
I wanted to remain curious and open about how this whole thing
unfolded.  Before heading into it, I showed the questions to Marissa
and asked for a _gut check_.  She felt good about it too.

The conversation was difficult.  It felt unfair, like I was chucking a
grenade into the middle of pleasant small talk.  But still, it was
well received.  I felt like my frustration was acknowledged, and I
came away with a more complete story of the thing that hurt me.

By all measures, everything went perfectly.  But I still felt
terrible.  After it was done, I had the urge to pester the person with
groveling slack message.  Despite taking as much time as I did to line
up my story, I couldn't convince myself that I had done all I could.
I couldn't convince myself that everything was cool.  The same
questions that I had poured so much time and reflection into now felt
petty and kniving.  I felt guilt, like I had set of an event of
senseless destruction or vandalized something that was working well
enough.

It's clear to me that I have a real problem raising conflict.  I've
always had a knack for keeping the things around me easy going, and
consequently I've avoided conflict my whole life.  But sometimes this
habit causes you to paint over real pain and frustration, and you end
up just taking it out one someone else.

It's tough.  I wish I could just be more aware of the things that
frustrate me, take my shot, and then move on with my life.  I feel
cheated that instead of feeling accomplished for raising something
like this in a mature way, I'm just feeling more doubtful about it.  I
probably just need some more time to reflect on it.

In other news, let me tell you about last night's tiny octopus
incident.  For dinner, I made fish stew.  Fish stew works with just
about any seafood, so I mix it up each time.  This week was cod,
shrimp, baby clams, and squid.

I unpacked the frozen squid.  I cut the long pale body sheath into
neat little rings, and just for fun I threw in some tentacles.  In the
hot stew, the long squirmy legs thicken and curl, forming what looks
like a tiny octopus.  Just before we started eating, Marissa fished
one of these out of her soup bowl and set it in front of Rodney.

"What?" exclaimed Rodney, leaning in to study the specimen.  "A tiny
octopus?  That's not food!"

"It is," said Marissa.  "We're eating that tonight."

I poured Rodney his own bowl of soup, picking out a few extra pieces
of shrimp for him to enjoy.  I finished the bowl with another big
rubbery bundle of tentacles.  Rodney saw his bowl and began to
nervously laugh.

"I don't want to eat that, I think," he said.  "Tiny octopus is not
food."

Without saying anything, I plucked the tentacles from his bowl and
popped it into my mouth.  Rodney's mouth hung open in astonishment.

"It's delicious, dude," I said.  "Try it."

"I don't think I want to," said Rodney nervously.  "Makes me feel
_kinda pretty weird_."

"I'll tell you what, dude," I said.  "If you eat that tiny octopus,
you get instant Rodney time.  The timer goes away."

Rodney looked at Marissa in disbelief.  "No timer?" he asked.

Marissa nodded.  "I agree," she said.  "If you eat that tiny octopus,
you instantly get Rodney time after dinner, and you can just eat for
fun."

Marissa and I expected more deliberation.  But instead, Rodney picked
up the tiny octopus from his bowl and slipped the entire thing into
his mouth.  He bursted into tears.

"You did it, dude!" I said, smiling.  Marissa and I offered him a golf
clap, but Rodney cried harder.

"It tastes _kinda pretty weird_," he whimpered as tears ran down his
face.

He would later tell us that it just tasted like a _weird sausage_.  As
promised, we honored Rodney's bravery with focused family time playing
with construction toys on the floor.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day, everyone.
