---
title: church coffee, marinara samples, and the super bowl
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! I hope you're feeling refreshed on this first
full week of February. Winter is nearly over - we're in the endgame now.
So if you're like me and you're starting to feel the cabin fever, rest
easy knowing we're almost into spring.

Yesterday was a pretty great day. After setting up Rodney on the couch
with some food and writing a journal entry, our flurry of a Sunday
morning carried us all in the car backing out of the driveway with five
minutes before church. We had hot coffee in thermoses and some fragments
of a blueberry muffin. Rodney, out of protest for having to wear a
button down shirt, made it clear that he would be leaving his coat on
and his hood up for the whole day, and he followed through with the
activism even while we were dropping him off in Sunday school. Sure
enough, he wandered into the gaggle of kids playing in the corner of the
muggy Sunday school classroom wearing his thick Carhart jacket zipped to
the top, hood up. "What's the over/under he's still wearing it when we
get back?" I joked to Marissa before we left.

We had a nice church service. Marissa and I snuck in a few minutes late,
sitting in the back row drinking coffee. I used to be self conscious
drinking coffee in church, but I've observed that our church is notably
pro coffee. Almost everyone partakes, drinking right out of mugs,
bringing in sugar and stir sticks. And now that I've gotten over the
self-inflicted mental stigma of drinking coffee in a church sanctuary,
it's become one of my favorite parts about Sunday. I mean - come on - is
there anything better than leaving your kid somewhere safe and getting
to sit in a room for hour and drink coffee, uninterrupted? The sales
pitch for church is suddenly very appealing isn't it?

After church, we stopped by the Sunday school to pick up Rodney. He was
still rocking his Carhart, zipped all the way to the top, hood up. And
by that time, beads of sweat pooled on his forehead. "He kept it on,"
shrugged Miss Maddie, the Sunday school teacher. You have to admire his
steadfastness, I guess.

We made our way to the car, and then to Hy-Vee. Rodney and Marissa
bought a slice of pizza, and I grabbed a pack of sushi and a diet coke
before joining them at a booth in the cafe. I quickly wolfed down my
lunch, then made a grocery list for Marissa, punching in each ingredient
of her taco tip as she read aloud from a web page on her phone.

Leaving the cafe to get our groceries, Hy-Vee was noticeably busier and
difficult to navigate - especially with the big, unwieldy kids seat cart
styled like a police car that Rodney insisted on. To further complicate
things, a presumptuous sales lady pinned us down by the meat counter and
talked me into trying all three versions of the marinaras she was
selling. "I don't know who I'm rooting for in the superbowl," she said,
handing me a third spoonful of red sauce. "My nickname is *KC*, so I
should cheer for the Chiefs, right?"

Back at home, Rodney shed is button down shirt and happily took a nap.
Marissa cleaned the living room and crashed on the couch. I remained in
the kitchen, starting on the red sauce for pizza, working on a shell
script in between stirring it on the stove. More optimizations to my
deep dish recipe precipitated out of cooking yesterday's double batch. I
discovered you can preserve the friendly bright red color of the sauce
if you simmer it more gently and stir it more frequently. I finally
figured out how to knead the dough and sponge the extra flour off the
sides of the bowl. I discovered how much easier it is to wipe room
temperature butter on a room temperature skillet than to melt cold
butter on a hot skillet.

Around five, Alex and Cassie arrived, bringing beer and an intriguing
cookie inside of a pretzel dessert. After greeting them and setting down
their stuff, I turned to get the game on TV. The process of finding a
free internet stream, casting it to the TV in the living room, and
configuring the audio so it only played from one device is all so
insanely complicated, I've actually grown really proud of it. "It
involves an Xbox controller, the TV remote, a bluetooth speaker, our
desktop computer. Set the TV volume to one, set the computer volume to
max…" I rambled.

"Why don't you just mute the TV?" Asked Cassie. My eyes widened, eager
to divulge more of the method to my madness. "Because then you have to
look at the blinking 'tv muted' indicator on the TV the entire game.
Setting it to 1 effectively mutes it without the warning," I proudly
explained.

I got Rodney out of his room, waking him up from his nap. Hearing Alex
and Cassie downstairs, he shot out of bed and rushed downstairs,
immediately greeting them and showing them his toys. We watched the
game, eating pizza on the couch. "This is a special day for Rodney," I
explained. "This is the second meal he's gotten to eat on the couch."
Rodney gave a knowing smile in his chair with his single slice of pizza
and plate resting on his lap.

The Superbowl entertained us this year. The half time show was good, but
just weird enough to ensure we'd be talking about it throughout the
week. Shakira's weird face and tongue noise right up in the camera,
along with the random shot of her playing the drums stand out to me this
morning as the surreal highlights. The commercials were solid - plenty
of hits and stinkers, and a good number of very big budget out-of-touch
attempts at touching commercials. And of course, the football was great
too. We got to see a stellar Niners running game, some good turnovers,
and a Kansas City trademark crazy comeback late in the game. "I called
it," I bragged. "The Chiefs would score three touchdowns in a row in
like two minutes."

We bid Cassie and Alex farewell and cleaned up the house, then went
upstairs for our Sunday meeting. This week, Marissa and I have lots of
exciting work planned. Temporarily moving out of our house to get our
floors redone is a stand-out - being only four weeks away, we're
starting to take things more seriously.

This morning, Marissa woke up with a sore throat, so I'm hanging around
the house for reinforcements, running interface with Rodney so she can
rest up. It doesn't feel fair that Marissa got sick. It felt like she
was still getting over the last one. Gotta love that weak pregnancy
immune system, right?

Hope you all have a wonderful week. Let's get this Monday!

