---
title: stockpiling, decorative letters, and a hole in a diaper
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  I hope you're having a good Tuesday morning
thus far.  I imagine that the cabin fever is starting to set in, and
the bleak, chilly weather isn't helping either.  But as long as we're
here, we still have plenty to be thankful for.

Yesterday was a nice quiet day of work, beginning with a team planning
meeting in the morning.  We all sleepily sipped coffee and exchanged
jokes, like we normally do, before laying out a loose plan for a week.
Things on the team are still going great.  We have interesting work to
do, and amidst the weird period of social isolation, it feels like
everyone is going out of their way to be more intentional with writing
and video calls.

Following our planning meeting, Marissa joined me upstairs for coffee
time.  She sat in the chair beside me, which was newly decorated with
an re-purposed side table and a tiny lamp just for the occasion.  "The
moment I turned that tiny lamp on, everything felt right.  That little
bit of extra light was the missing piece," I said praising the new
detail.  Marissa proudly set her coffee cup down beside it.

Rodney peeked his head into our bedroom.  He was wearing a Tupperware
bin on his head and holding a hockey stick.  "Go down stairs, dude," I
ordered.  "We're having coffee time."

"_COFFEE_ TIME?," Rodney repeated, barging into the room.  Rodney has
found a new trick in which he uses follow up questions to stall
something he's supposed to do, or remain in a place he's not supposed
to be.

"Yeah, we're having coffee time, dude.  Go downstairs and play, OK?"
Marissa instructed.  Rodney hung his head low and shuffled his way
out, dragging his hockey stick behind him.  Shortly after the door
closed, I could see a tiny eye peeking through the keyhole.

"I _SEE_ YOU," I said pointing at the keyhole.  Rodney giggled,
keeping his face pressed up against the door.

Marissa and I chatted about the pandemic.  It's been difficult finding
the balance between supporting each other and being honest with each
other.  "I think we can each be strong without faking it," I said.
Marissa nodded.

I spent most of the day writing documentation for a new tool our team
is building, and nothing clears your head like writing technical
documentation.  At lunch time, I jaunted down the stairs to plate up
my leftover Subway sandwich, shaking some cheese balls onto the plate
before joining Marissa and Rodney on the couch.  Together, we took in
an episode of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.  Rodney wormed his way
onto my lap and proceeded to pick cheese balls from my plate.

I had another meeting in the afternoon, then at quitting time, I got
ready to make a trip to the grocery store.  Marissa and I had talked
about curtailing the daily grocery trips.  "Just let me do it on my
own terms.  I'll make a small stockpile - I just want to be thoughtful
about it, and accumulate things slowly throughout the week."

To sweeten the deal, Marissa even agreed to throw away the giant
decorative letters above our fridge that spell EAT.  I used to give
her grief about those all the time.  "Are they instructions?" I used
to tease.  "Is it a cue for when you stumble in here and forget what
this room is supposed to do?"  I used to rearrange the letters to
spell TEA and ATE just to see if she would notice.

"We can get rid of those and keep food up there instead," offered
Marissa.  I was sad that it came to this.  I enjoyed the playful
teasing while it lasted.

I drove to the Jenny Street market.  The tiny grocery store was
noticeably more busy, but well-stocked and well-staffed.  The
employees were stressed out, but doing an admirable job of saving pace
and remaining patient.

I perused the store, thoughtfully filling a cart with canned
vegetables, fish, and fruit.  I grabbed some kale, potatoes, yeast,
and canned tomatoes.  I also picked up a baguette on the way to the
checkout.  I wasn't trying to get everything at once, but it was a
start.

As I was checking out, an employee ducked his head in my lane.  "Dawn,
we're not supposed to park in the parking lot anymore," he said
sharply.  The cashier nodded.  "It was pretty empty when I got here,
sorry...," she muttered. I uncomfortably shifted on my feed,
pretending to check something on my phone.

Back at home, I began cooking dinner and putting the groceries away.
I sliced some potatoes and threw them in a pot with sliced kale and
sausage.  While the pot simmered, I cut and cleaned the rest of the
kale, saving it in a bag in the back of our freezer.

I set aside the single withering tomato in our counter top fruit
basket and filled it with the extra potatoes.  I almost threw the
tomato away, but I decided to slice it up instead.  I assembled a few
quick crostinis on a pan, using slices of bread, some grated pecorino,
olive oil, and the tomato slices.

We gathered at the table for dinner.  I first plated the crostinis.
"Remember that random tomato sitting on the counter?  I decided to use
it."  Even the cheapest Italian food has a funny way of tasting
lavish.  Feasting on merely bread toasted with a leftover tomato, I
felt like royalty.

I cleaned up dinner and Marissa took Rodney upstairs to give him a
bath.  Hearing that Rodney was trying to poop on the potty, I joined
them upstairs.

"He felt it coming while he was in the tub, then got scared," Marissa
said quietly to me.  Rodney was wrapped in a towel sitting on the
toilet with little suds of soap in his hair.  He's close to pooping -
he's gotten pretty good at telling us when it's happening, but he
still gets nervous when he sits down to do it.  

"Here dude, I have an
idea," I said pulling my head up from my phone.  I cut a small hole in
a diaper and handed it to Marissa.  She strapped it onto Rodney, and
sat him back down.

"All done.  Rodney all done," he insisted after a few more minutes of
trying.

"The diaper helped, I think," said Marissa while helping Rodney back
into his clothes.  "He looked more relaxed - I'll set that aside and
use it later."

After putting Rodney to bed, I cleaned up the kitchen.  I cleared a
shelf off the pantry, moving everything onto the high shelf above the
fridge where Marissa's decorative letters used to sit.  I made a batch
of white rice on the stove.  Marissa joined me in the kitchen to check
up on the changes.

"I hate buying food.  I feel guilty when I have to buy a lot of it -
but I love cooking it," I said.  I pointed to the empty shelf with my
foot.  "Thanks for letting me store stuff above the fridge - now I can
put more canned stuff here," I said.

Marissa nodded and smiled.  "Are you making rice?" she asked.

"Yeah," I replied.  "I'm going to try to get in the habit of making
either a loaf of bread or a batch of rice every night.  We'll have
fried rice tomorrow, and anything else in the fridge we don't eat is
getting chopped up and added to the rice," I laughed.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Hope you have a great Tuesday.
