---
title: swatch mad, sourdough choni, and hamilton hot takes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome back to the regularly scheduled work
week.  I hope you had a restful holiday weekend, and now that the
barbecues, day drinking, and comforting our shaking dogs in the bath
tub is all behind us, you're feeling eager to venture into July.

Speaking of shaking in the bath tub, may I just say that our cousin
dog Jojo continues to be a very delightful house guest.  While she
spends quite a bit of down-time in the tub, she seems to get an extra
burst of social energy whenever she has to go potty in the yard.  So
this morning, she greeted me wagging her big thick tail and lumbering
body by our upstairs baby gate.

"You puppies GET BACK," I yelled with a hushed voice, pushing Ollie
and Ziggy into the living room with my leg, reeling the retractable
gate in front of them.  "Jojo needs her space to eat breakfast."

Jojo wolfed down her breakfast out of my largest cooking bowl.  When
she was finished, she smacked her lips a few times, then made her way
over to the living room to stare blankly out the window for a few
minutes while the fresh kibble sloshed around in her tummy.

She looked over her shoulder at me in a way that seemed like she would
have said _Thanks Uncle Alex, I'm going to go back in the tub now._
Well, thank you for spending the morning with me, Jojo.  You are
excused.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  After climbing out of bed,
Rodney and I hung out in the living room and fooled around with
swords, claws, and nerf guns.  Marissa set up at the dining room
computer where she worked like mad on her swatches.

"Look at this," I said teasing her for the array of water bottles,
dishes, and coffee mugs she had collected around her makeshift
workstation.  "It's like you've gone mad with swatches.  You've gone
_swatch mad_."

For lunch, we slapped together some quick sandwiches with Krang Bread,
warmed up steak, and grilled belled peppers right out of the fridge.
And because it felt like the right thing to do, I poured the steak
juices into a little shot glass and served it on the side, like how
they used to serve the extra wet Italian beef at our favorite bar from
our Rockford days.

For dinner, I made a sfincione, and I tried making the dough from
sourdough starter instead of yeast.  At first, things felt like they
were on the right track.  The dough puffed up beautifully under
tinfoil in the warm afternoon sun, leeching the smell of an old world
pizzeria onto the deck.  Even before the pizza was assembled, I was
already starting to feel proud of myself - not only for improvising a
pizza dough, but for finding a resourceful way to use the small amount
of starter I have to discard every day to feed _Krang_.

As soon as a rubber spatula pierced the glossy surface, the doughy
parachute collapsed.  The pizza dough turned to a warm brown soup,
rolling out onto the oiled pan with the same spirit and vigor of a
melted smoothy.

"The texture is a little different," said Marissa.  "But it tastes
good."

"You know it's interesting," I said inspecting a wedge of crust in my
hand.  "It kind of reminds me of the earlier sourdough loafs I tried
that didn't rise in the oven.  Only since it's covered in cheese and
sauce, I don't mind eating it."

"You just can't beat classic _choni_," said Marissa.

After dinner, we played Candy Land on the back porch.  And for those
keeping score, I finally shook off my deep losing streak.  I scored
big with the lolipop card early in the game, then sealed the deal with
a solid arc of double cards.  Scooting my little gingerbread figurine
into the Kandy Castle, I was tempted to leap onto my chair and taunt
my family like John Cena.

"See, I sat to your right this time," I said to Marissa.  "I think
that gave me victory today."

We even let Baby Miles play a round with us.  Rodney was nearly
howling with laughter as Marissa swung Miles' arms and used his chubby
fingers to grip the little cardboard cutout cards.  Figures - Miles
won his first game.  Not unlike Rodney's first game, he drew the
icecream card and swept the floor with the rest of us.

Rodney went upstairs to get ready for bed.  I sat in his room while he
changed into his pajamas and brushed his teeth.  Just before shutting
of the bathroom light, I heard him whisper "Good night Jojo - good
girl."

Marissa and I would clean the house up and listen to Hamilton for the
rest of the night.  Ah, _Hamilton_.  Has anyone seen it yet?  I
haven't meant to hold my opinion so close to my chest.  It's just
taken some time to figure out how I feel about it.

"It's a bad musical and I don't like it.  Want to listen to it for a
bit?" - that's our running joke for Hamilton.  The songs are so
catchy.  They worm their way into your life, and if you're not
careful, you'll find yourself letting the soundtrack run on repeat all
day, which just worsens the effect.

I'm sitting on some hot takes, I suppose.  For one, it doesn't feel
like there is any time to process things in Hamilton.  Every song
crescendos into a big blazing musical number with a whole suite of
flailing Taylor Swift dancers, and it feels like you're missing out on
a sense of intimacy.  The rapping has its moments, but through the
duration of the musical, I can't shake the feeling of embarrassment,
like I'm watching an episode of _The Magic School Bus_ or a video from
the played out "Epic Rap Battles of History" YouTube channel.

And perhaps my hottest take of all, I wasn't a fan of how _Hamilton_
used race in the story.  I have no issue with a "colorblind cast" as a
creative decision, but what felt dirty about _Hamilton_ is that
diversity was used to reinforce who the good guys were.  The Brits
were very white - played by white actors who lacked rhythm and
coolness.  And _Hamilton_ went on to make the case that America was
great because of how we treated other races.  "Immigrants get the job
done," winks Alexander at an adoring audience.  He struts with
confidence around a tavern that bustles like a modern day Harlem.
Together, he and a multi cultural cast of founding fathers lay the
groundwork for the great American experiment.

"We were colonists too," I sneered at the television.  "Hadn't we just
finished driving out like thousands of Native Americans out of their
homes?"

I don't think there's any sinister agenda in Hamilton.  I think it's
entertainment.  But at some point, I started to worry about how
comfortable it felt.  Race relations continues to be a big problem in
this country, and I don't think a piece like _Hamilton_ adds anything
special or honest to the conversation.  Our founding fathers were
white - many of them slave owners.  And they didn't warmly invite
other cultures to take a seat at the table of creating America.  I'm
not sure if we've yet earned the right to pretend they were as cool as
they were portrayed in Hamilton.

If you have any thoughts about Hamilton, send them my way.  I'll be
thinking about it - and unfortunately probably listening to it - all
day.  Thanks for stopping by.
