---
title: old emails, sunset sauce, and the batman voice
---

Dear Journal,

_Halo, goede mensen._ Hello, good people.  Good morning, and happy
Tuesday.  I hope this morning, everyone is being kind to you, and your
coffee flows fresh and abundantly.  We've got a busy day ahead of us,
but that can wait.  It's journal time.  Pull up a comfortable chair,
grab a cup of coffee, and prepare to read some words.

Around the house, my favorite greeting to use is _It's good to see
me_.  This phrase came out of a long ago era where Rodney was learning
to talk.  In the mornings while getting him out of his room, I would
say "Good morning, it's good to see you!"  Not knowing how to
reciprocate, Rodney would just sleepily rub his eyes and reply
_yeah... good to see me_.  Good to see me.

Good to see me!  I have some good news.  Yesterday the good ol'
Wheaton College student IT department responded to my aimless email
asking to reset my student email password.  Thanks to their heroics, I
regained access to my old disorganized inbox and along with taking a
short trip down memory lane, I also recovered my HNGR on the Moon
paper.

"Did you find anything else good in there?" asked Marissa.

"Not really," I replied.  "Mostly just me emailing papers to myself so
I could print them in the chem lab.  But there were a few gems lying
in the rough."

I recovered a very dignified email from one of my chemistry professors
scolding us for almost destroying a high performance liquid
chromatography machine, or HPLC for short.  Our professor explained to
us that inside the machine was something like 100 yards of micron
grade pressurized metal pipe.  While we used the machine, it was
imperative that we kept the tank filled with the ultra pure solvent as
to not allow any air bubbles to get trapped in the intricate tubing.
Well, between the three groups that used the machine over the weekend,
nobody bothered to refill it, and I can only imagine how angry he must
have been coming into the lab one early morning hearing a loud
slurping noise out of the expensive, bone dry HPLC machine.

I had another humbling email exchange with my literature professor.
The subject line just read "Sorry...".  I had taken my laptop to class
under the guise of taking notes, but had it confiscated because it
became a distraction.  Knowing me, the fact that I was not paying
attention and actually furiously working on a new shell program was
probably painfully obvious.

"This is great though," I told Marissa.  "From this inbox alone, I'll
probably be able to recover most of the school work that I lost.  It
will just take some time to comb through."

_Sip_.  It was a good day yesterday.  As the work day began, I had a
hard time harnessing my focus, but I figured out how to leverage even
my flighty mood as an advantage.  I took the first portion of the day
just bouncing around, finding chores and odd jobs to work on from our
support queue.

I feel lucky.  There's a lot of variety in my job, and I never have
trouble finding something to do that also fits my mood.  Do I feel
like being introverted for a while?  I can shut off slack and write a
long technical document.  Do I feel like helping someone fix
something?  I can just hang around in our team's support channel -
there's usually at least one bug or request waiting.

For lunch, we had a decadent spread of leftovers.  It was like a
triumphant victory march through all the meals that we had eaten over
the weekend.  Leftover paella.  Pork tenderloin with cream sauce.
Nachos and guacamole.  I didn't even get a chance to heat up the
garlic mashed potatoes from the night before - everyone around the
table was already stuffed.

The good filling lunch got my head right, and I found the motivation
to dig into some more meaningful work.  At quitting time, I locked my
laptop and headed downstairs to start on dinner.

Yesterday's recipe was crispy ham in "sunset sauce".  But to make it
more Rodney friendly, I jokingly referred to it all day as _dirty
sauce_ - another gem that fell out of Rodney's pre-language brain.

In this recipe, "sunset sauce" was just a bechamel cream with a splash
of marinara sauce.  The sauce would be poured over a wide casserole
dish, covering up rolled up pieces of ham and topped with cheese
before baking in the oven.

Our grocery store was short of ham, so I had to break into my
emergency pack of prosciutto.  The thin, translucent strips of cured
meat made for adorable little rolls, but it covered a hilariously
small portion of the casserole dish.  I padded things with a few
strips of bacon as well.

In the oven, the sauce and the cheese melt together and start to crisp
around the outside.  But the really pretty part of the dish is the
pieces of ham peeking out of the sauce, which also get crispy.  We
scooped it out of the piping hot dish onto some buttered pasta.

"What is this?" asked Rodney.

"It's _dirty sauce_," I replied.  Rodney wrinkled his nose and
laughed.

Normally on Monday, Rodney and I do a piano lesson.  But having
already promised we'd all watch the new Dude Perfect video, we agreed
to play _hooky_ and punt the lesson for another time.

"You still remember everything, right?" I asked.

"Yeah!" Rodney nodded, launching into a recitation.
"Do-re-mi-frish-bish-flish... SO!"  Close enough.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I grabbed some beers and made
our way to the couch to start another movie.

"I think I'm going to pick _The Dark Knight_," said Marissa.  "Isn't
that still like a ten-out-of-ten on IMDB?"

"I think it's come down since," I replied.  "That's a funny movie,
because of all the people I talk to, it seems like you either think
it's the perfect movie, or the most over hyped piece of trash in all
of cinema history.  Never in between."

"I remember liking it," said Marissa.

"I liked it to," I replied.  "I mean, except for the weird voice he
does."

"What," said Marissa.  "You mean... the Batman voice?"

"Batman's voice isn't supposed to be different.  He's already wearing
a mask, why would he need to cover up his voice?" I protested.
"WHERE'S THA JOOOOKERRRRR," I growled.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
