---
title: crafty fair, grocery shopping, and a good cleaning tip
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! We're feeling a bit rushed this morning. Both
Marissa and I slept in a mere half hour past our alarm, but it's funny
how so few minutes can change how a whole morning feels, isn't it? It's
going to be tight, and there's little room for error, but I think we're
going to make it. I've got a cup of coffee, Rodney is eating a bowl of
cereal by the TV with some cut up strawberries (Rodney's Favorites, Item
\#5), and I'm next in line for a shower.

Yesterday was a much slower, more relaxing morning. We slept in, and I
let Rodney eat some cut up Eggo waffles on the couch while watching
water slide videos. After breakfast, I cleaned him up, and Marissa set
him up with toys and a movie before leaving for agility. I'd be able to
code the rest of the morning in the dining room.

I'm definitely in a coding phase these days. Over the past few days,
I've even left some code on the screen in the dining room, chipping away
at it sometimes whenever I walk by. It's funny how I go through phases
like that.

Finally as it started to approach the middle of the day, Rodney got
bored with his movie and started to bother me. He brought toys from the
living room one by one and shoved them onto the desk. *I brought you
prizes*, he'd say, then run back and get more. I've often wondered at
how his toys end up in piles on the computer desk, but thanks to
yesterday, that's no longer a mystery.

"You can always tell the days where I pay bills and I'm really
productive on the family computer," Marissa told me. "Because there's
usually a big stack of Rodney's toys from when he brings me prizes and
tries to get me to play with him." Mystery solved.

Rodney and I made some lunch. He helped me assemble a peanut butter and
jelly for his plate, and I heated up leftover chicken and potatoes for
mine. Rodney watched with concern as I dabbed hot sauce all over my
bowl. "Careful Dada," he said, gesturing at me. "Spicy."

"Thanks for the heads up dude," I said nodding.

"Drink your biertje," Rodney replied, pointing at my beer. I obediently
took a swig from the bottle. "All better," commented Rodney.

We cleaned up from lunch, showered, and got ready for the day, dressing
in some warm clothes in preparation for our long walk. Even though it
was barely above freezing temperature, the sun, warmer air, and melting
ice made it feel like the first spring day all year. We jumped in
Rodney's big blue wagon and headed down our street. Rodney sat in the
wagon with his fists stuffed in his coat pocket.

As we passed the community center in our neighborhood, I noticed a sign
that said *Crafty Fair, 10-4*. "Let's check it out dude," I said to
Rodney. "If anything, we can just walk around and warm up for a few
minutes." We parked our wagon out front, hung our coats up, and wandered
between the crowded craft booths. Rodney liked looking at the tiny
succulent plants, paintings, and pottery. In the upper level, there was
a vendor selling *vintage clothes*.

"What are vintage clothes?" Marissa asked later. I started a waffled
explanation. "You knowâ€¦ like if you want a bright red windbreaker with
the Nintendo logo, or an 80's batman graphic T shirt." Marissa laughed,
"Oh, so it's basically good will."

Rodney and I braved some more light sales pressure to buy handmade soaps
and homemade popcorn, but we resisted, and headed outside to stretch our
legs on the playground. The park whipped him into a frenzy of childish
excitement, leaping through the wet snow from one play fixture to the
next, yelling at the top of his lungs. "DADA WATCH *THIS*" he yelled,
spinning in fast circles on a seat fixed to a metal pole. "DADA WATCH
*THIS*," now running dizzily to the slide.

Soon, the sun went down behind some clouds, and it started to get cold.
We jumped back in our wagon and finally got back on track to walk to the
grocery store. Well past his usual naptime, Rodney started to crash,
quietly slumping back in his wagon.

The grocery store was busy. As we stood waiting to pick up our steaks
from the meat counter, Rodney left the lobster tank and rejoined me,
standing patiently with his hands at his side. "Did you get sick of
looking at the lobsters?" I asked. "Ah, the lobsters must be sleeping or
something," I said, answering my own question.

While making the final rounds to pick up cream and milk, Rodney fell off
the cart, bumping his head on the juice shelf. Rodney shed brief tears,
but after a quick hug and a chocolate milk from the shelf, we were back
on our way, checking out and packing the wagon with groceries. By the
time we got home, Rodney was so tired that he offered to put himself to
bed. "Rodney do it, I can do it myself," he said, scooping up his
blanket and stuffed animals off the couch and slowly trudging upstairs.
I still joined him upstairs to check his work, and get him into a
diaper.

Rodney slept, and after putting on a Marvin Gaye album, I got to cooking
dinner. I was preparing steak with mushroom sauce, and a side of brown
butter potatoes. The steak and mushroom sauce was a tried and true
recipe - butter, shallots, forest mushrooms, cream, reduced stock and
leftover water from soaking the mushrooms. But the potatoes fell apart
on me. It turns out that if you cook peeled potatoes in a saucepan with
butter, it had better be non stick. Over an hour, after continuous
frying and detaching, they had left a nasty layer of burnt starch and
butter caked to the bottom. Though I was still able to salvage some
pretty decent buttery mashed potatoes from the wreckage, cleaning that
pan would be a problem later. "As a final step," I said in my best food
blogger personality voice, "just throw that pan in the garbage, because
it's ruined and you will never use it again."

I didn't throw the pan away. Quite the opposite actually - last night I
discovered a great way to clean pans afflicted with tough, burnt
residue. I filled it with water, added a drop of dish soap, and got it
up to a rolling boil on the stove. After only fifteen minutes, I was
able to scrape the bottom of the pan with a heat proof rubber spatula,
and the residue came off immediately. So that's my current favorite
cleaning tip, and I hope it saves you the same twenty minutes of
scraping and scrubbing in the sink that it saved me.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, and I caught up on chores while
Marissa did a resin session in the basement. Ziggy was so tired from
agility that she stayed curled up in the same spot in the armchair.
Checking on her periodically through the night, she looked like a tiny
fuzzy throw pillow.

That's what I got today. This morning, we're going to church, picking up
groceries, and having some friends over to watch the super bowl. I was
tempted to wear my Bears jersey to church, and just the thought of how
inappropriate and controversial that would be still makes me laugh, but
I think I'll abstain and just wait until I get home.

Hope you all have a wonderful day, and here's to an entertaining super
bowl. Have a great Sunday - thanks for reading!

