---
title: focus, chicken blood, fire lessons, and college friends
banner: 2020-04-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Ah, I love Saturdays.  I slept in hard this
morning.  My 9 AM weekend alarm didn't stand a chance today.  I have
to conclude that I must have an internal _anti-alarm_ that is
sophisticated enough to cancel out the sound of my phone during
mornings where I really need extra sleep.

And I needed the extra sleep today.  Yesterday, I worked like a
maniac.  I spent the morning coding in my room, leaving my chair once
to grab a coffee refill and a stroopwaffel.

Then sometime around 10, there was a incident in our staging
environment.  Our staging environment doesn't affect any customers,
but as it's a shared environment meant to be kept stable enough for
developers to _stage_ changes to their software, it was important
enough to drop everything and fix.

I joined Nate on a Zoom call, and we dove in.  Shell commands.  Pull
requests.  Skimming through tickets.  Google searches.  Before I knew
it, it was already two in the afternoon before we finally put the fire
out.  Marissa walked into our bedroom holding a plated sandwich, a
beer, and a slice of cake, and the sight of it was like watching the
clouds part for a chorus of angels.  I ate, wrapped up the workday,
then made my way into the kitchen to make dinner.

"Thanks for bringing me lunch," I said to Marissa, grabbing a thawed
chicken out of the fridge and heaving it into the sink.

"No problem," said Marissa.  "I finished lunch, and I realized you
hadn't come down to eat yet.  I don't think you left your chair all
day."

I replayed my day in my head.  "You're right," I said.  "I think I got
up once to get a coffee refill and a stroopwaffel.  But seriously that
sandwich, beer, and cake was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen."

Marissa smiled, dragging our dining room office chair into the kitchen
and plopping down.  "I have to do this now," she said.  "I'm too big
to sit on the counter like I normally do."

I was grateful to have company in the kitchen.  After such a busy work
day, I appreciate the intentional connection.

"Was it an outage?" she asked.

"Yeah, but just in staging.  No angry customers, but still kind of
urgent," I replied.  I removed the chicken from plastic, dabbing it
with a paper towel and flopping it onto my cutting board.

"Also, I had a day off yesterday.  So I feel like I was coming into
today with like the kind of hustle you have on Monday.  But even more
because I still had a weekend to look forward to.  It was just like
this explosion of focus."

Marissa looked visibly squeamish as I dug the spine out of the chicken
with a knife, fingers dripping with icy blood, cutting board speckled
with drops of gooey cartilage.  "I'm pretty good at getting the spine
out, but I'm not going to lie, when it comes to getting the breastbone
out I kind of have to make it up as I go."

"Is this going to ruin frosted flakes for me?" asked Marissa, glancing
down at her snack bowl of cereal.

"Haha, it just might.  Don't worry, I'm almost done with the bad
part," I said.  I salted the chicken quarters and moved them to a
clean plate, sliding them back into the fridge.  "I think I'm going to
grill these."

Marissa got Rodney up from his nap, and together Rodney and I made our
way to the back porch to light the grill.  He helped me fill the
chimney lighter with charcoals, and together we wadded up a piece of
cardboard and doused it with lighter fluid.

"Are you ready for the cool part, dude?" I said, kneeling low by the
grill.  I cautiously reached my arm into the open grill, flicking the
lighter with my thumb.  Rodney watched with wonder as a brilliant
orange flame leapt forth.

"Fire is cool, but it's very dangerous," I said.  I locked eyes with
him to make sure the lesson landed.  "Never play with this stuff
unless I'm around."  Rodney stared back at me blankly.  "YES _DADA_,"
I said sharply.

"_Yes dada_," he replied.  I smiled, dismissing Rodney.  He happily
skipped away into the backyard.

Meanwhile, Marissa practiced agility with the dogs.  She ran tight
circles with Ziggy between two metal jumps, egging her own with her
favorite rope toy.  The excitement got too much for Ziggy, and she
took off like a rabbit running in circles around the back yard.  Ollie
followed her, weaving in and out of Rodney's toys littered throughout
the backyard.

Closing the grill, I wandered inside to select a side from our pantry.
I took out two cans of speared asparagus, opened them with a can
opener, and dumped them into a strainer.  There were some pieces that
actually resembled asparagus, but it was mostly unappetizing green
mush.  I probed through the mound of vegetable mash with a fork before
finally deciding it was a lost cause.  "Corn it is," I muttered to
myself.  I guess canned asparagus was too good to be true.

Rodney wanted to eat dinner outside, and even though the sun had
started to go down for the night, making way for an evening chill, we
decided to bundle up in hoodies and coats to oblige him.  Marissa set
the table while I seared the chicken thighs over the fire for some
last minute color and flavor.  After plating up the chicken, corn, and
focaccia bread, we commenced dinner.

"I feel like such a carnivore," said Marissa.  I laughed.  "Yeah,
there's no tidy way to eat a quartered chicken, is there?  It kind of
reminds me of when we used to eat at Boston Market.  I would get so
messy that I would have to immediately wash my hands, wrists, and arms
in the bathroom after eating."

We cleaned up from dinner and made our way upstairs for a Zoom call
arranged by our friends from college.  I signed online, greeted by a
large grid of tired faces, headphones, and evening drinks.  "I barely
recognize some of you," I laughed.  "Beth, who is that really grizzly
looking dude sitting next to you," I teased pointing at Ben.

It was refreshing seeing every one again.  Marissa and I led an
informal round of questions, but I feel like I spent more time
laughing than talking.  And even though these people are all now
esteemed professors, counselors, pastors, parents, and professionals,
we have a special chemistry together.  They make me feel like I'm in
college again - care-free, capricious, and cheeky.  "I think this was
a hit," I said before wrapping up for the night.  "Let's do this again
really soon."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Hope you have a wonderful
Saturday.
