---
title: revisions, vic berger, and deliverance
banner: 2020-11-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  From the magical world of midweek paid
vacation, let me be the first to wish you a happy Wednesday.  Even
though I have the rest of this week off, I had no intention of
sleeping in.  Deep down I knew that the key to unlocking today's
potential for maximum enjoyment was getting an early start as if
nothing was out of place, making up the difference with a stellar
afternoon nap later today.  Consequently, I'm here.  Bright eyed,
bushy tailed, freshly awake, even though nobody asked me to.

Even so, I'm running exactly fifteen minutes behind my regular workday
cadence.  Each day I take a shower and plant myself at the computer to
write at 8:30, and at the time of writing this paragraph it's already
8:45.  It's almost like my subconscious sluggard chose to rebel in
that way.

Whatever.  I don't have anywhere to be today.  My top priority is just
hanging out with Rodney and Miles to give Marissa time to prepare for
her virtual art gallery this weekend.  Speaking of which, I'll share
the details as soon as I can find them.  The event information wasn't
yet on Marissa's website, but I'm sure updating that page is near the
top of her sprawling TODO list this week.

But like I said, I don't have much to do today.  Last night Rodney and
I penciled in a soft commitment to reenacting some Paw Patrol action
around his Adventure Bay tower.  I have a thoroughly frozen chicken in
the fridge that may need some extra help thawing before dinner.

I've also gotten back into hacking on my blog.  Last night I crafted a
slick [python script] for automatically managing revisions (trigger
warning: this could get a little nerdy).  With each set of changes I
make, I assign a revision stamp comprised of three digits separated by
periods (e.g. `v11.0.3`).  Each time I make a small tweak to the
tooling or source code that runs behind the scenes, I increment the
last _patch_ version number.  Each time I make an small edit to
existing text, like correcting a typo or adding a caption to a figure,
I increment the middle _minor_ version number.  Lastly, new entries
increment the first _major_ version number.  And of course, I have
some concise commands I can run while editing to make the whole
workflow breezy and effortless.  Once I'm done writing this entry,
I'll run the command `make publish`, which will automatically
increment the version to `v12.0.0` and shove it up into the Internet
for the eternal Internet.

[python script]: https://github.com/arecker/blog/blob/v11.0.3/src/revision.py

_Sip_.  What do you have to do today?  What's your favorite way to
track changes to a bunch of text files?  And more importantly, how has
your week been?

Earlier this week, Marissa and I were hanging out on the couch taking
in some YouTube videos.  We were enjoying some of the bizarre works of
the surrealist video creator Vic Berger, known for making these
dreadful, unsettling cuts of awkward political situations.

"I need to show you my favorite one," I laughed, flicking my phone
screen.  "This one is a classic."

For Marissa, I played [Mr. Trump Gives Jon Voight A Medal].  In my
view, this is a quintessential Vic Berger classic.  It's got dancing,
a deep cut reference to _Baby Geniuses 2_, and it beautifully
amplifies how awkward it must have felt to be in the same room as
Donald Trump while we was raving about how good of a movie
_Deliverance_ was in his usual tone deaf style.

[Mr. Trump Gives Jon Voight A Medal]: https://youtu.be/sT3coep3EW0

Watching the video must have planted a seed.  The next night, I picked
_Deliverance_ as our movie pick.

Marissa groaned.  "Isn't this the movie with... you know... that one
scene where..."

"Yep." I interrupted.  "I think I saw this movie in high school.  To
be honest I don't remember that much about it."

It's a shame that _Deliverance_ is only remembered in pop culture for
its infamous excruciating rape scene, and I include myself in that
oversight.  Seeing the film once in high school, that was my only
take-away.  But revisiting the film later in life I've come to
appreciate everything else going on that makes the film so powerful
and dreadful.

Family men Bobby, Ed, and Drew reluctantly follow their macho
survivalist friend Lewis to a remote part of the Appalachian mountains
to get one last shot at canoeing a dangerous river before it is paved
over for a man made lake.  They stop at a gas station to fill up and
get directions, and we witness some important interactions that make
for grim foreshadowing.  Bobby, the man who would later be violated in
the woods, exhibits a serious lack of respect for the hillbilly type.
"We got a live one here," he quips turning his back as the owner of
the gas station.  I watched Bobby carefully through the early scenes.
Each time they interact with a local, Bobby refuses to speak with them
for more than a few seconds and literally turns his back to let his
more meek friend Ed converse on his behalf.

Waiting around at the gas station, Drew confidently noodles on his
guitar, and he's joined by a boy banjo player.  The two proceed to
play the iconic "Dueling Banjos" musical number.  It's a fun,
light-hearted interaction, but remember that Drew can't keep up with
the boy, stopping the song early yelling "I'm lost!  I'm lost!".  The
boy would reappear later, stoically swinging his banjo and casting a
haunting gaze at their canoe as it passes.  Drew, as well his other
friends had already been weighed, measured, and found wanting.  Down
river, death awaited.

Laster in the film, Lewis kills one of their pursuers with an arrow.
The men have a heated discussion as to whether they should turn the
body into the authorities or take it upon themselves to hide it in the
woods.

"Where is justice?" screams Lewis.  "These people are all related.  Do
you want to sit in front of a jury with his mother, brother, and
sister in the jury box?"

The men chose to hide the body, thinking the locals had no respect for
justice.  But they were again made to rue their disrespect for the
local land and culture.  They find themselves fleeing from the law and
evading justice, leaving a gruesome secret behind them in the bottom
of the lake that haunts Ed in his dreams.

It's a good movie.  Painful to sit through on a lot of levels.  On a
shallow level, there is an gruesome and vivid rape scene that's
difficult to shake off.  But surrounding the rest of the movie is a
haunting tragedy how a group of modern men tried to use a river they
didn't understand to gain respect, and how the river punished their
disrespect with suffering and death.

Go watch _Deliverance_.  It's a good one.  Thanks for stopping by
today, have a great Wednesday, everyone.
