---
title: blueberry muffins, remote control cars, jackpots, and bad waiters
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! It feels good to roll over into a new month,
doesn't it? And where I'm writing this, the sun is warm, and stepping
outside I can feel every ounce of this hgih-of-fifty-degrees weather.
Way to go, March of twenty-twenty. You're off to a strong start - keep
it up.

After rolling out of bed around 8:30, I threw on my hoodie and made a
quick drive to Hy-Vee. We needed some things for breakfast, but most
importantly, our stash of Marissa's choice pregnancy craving - the
irreplaceable and addictive Hy-Vee Blueberry Muffins (with the sugar
coating) - was completely depleted. *Careful now*, I muttered to myself
carrying the groceries into the house. Still half asleep, I was
imagining the scene from Balto where they unload the life saving serum
off of the sled - an apt analogy that really captures how important
these muffins are to Marissa, I think.

I got to simultaneously cleaning the kitchen, putting groceries away,
and cooking breakfast. I clarified some butter, preheated the oven, and
whipped up a batch of Dutch baby batter. I laid a half pound of bacon on
the skillet and clambered on a chair to remove the batteries from our
smoke detector.

Somewhere in the middle of my Sunday breakfast routine, Rodney barrelled
down the stairs and happily greeted me. He had in hand a tiny remote
control car that he had won at Dave & Buster's the night before.
"Morning DADA," he chirped, still in his PJ's. "Open it for me?"

"Sure dude," I replied, checking the bacon quietly sizzling on the stove
from the corner of my eye. I pried the truck free of its plastic and
cardboard restraints. "We need some batteries," I said, whipping open
the kitchen drawer and digging around for the screwdriver set. The bacon
began to sizzle more loudly as I found the appropriately sized phillips
head. I grabbed a pair of tongs and gingerly turned each strip of bacon,
then dabbed up the grease with a wadded paper towel before kneeling down
to finish assembling the car. I imagined I was disarming a bomb, and
with clarified butter smoking in the oven, hot bacon on the stove, and
an anxious toddler waiting to play with his new car toy, that was easy
to imagine. "There," I said, setting the car on the table. I wrapped my
fingers around the controller and applied pressure to the tiny
joysticks. The car whirred to life. I handed Rodney the controller
before he excitedly ran after the car.

At last, I set the table for breakfast. Marissa sleepily wandered into
the dining room and grabbed a cup of coffee. A smile spread across her
face when she saw two packs of her muffins waiting on the counter.
"Let's eat," I said, pulling the skillet out of the oven.

"This is a *we're not leaving the house for a while* kind of breakfast,"
I said taking off my apron and joining everyone at the table.

We needed a big meal this morning. Last night, we went out to eat at our
favorite BBQ place, and the experience went down hill. We were hoping to
get in and out relatively quickly, saving plenty of time for video games
at Dave & Busters. But 45 minutes into patiently waiting at our table,
the light hearted joking turned bitter. "The people behind us are
eating," said Marissa, gesturing with her eyes. I nodded. "Yeah," I
replied. "And the people behind us finished. We sat down the same time
they did." Marissa caught the waiter standing by the bar. He looked like
he was urgently trying to get a word in. "Ah," said Marissa. "He forgot
to put our food in."

The host emerged from the kitchen with a tiny plate of fries and a few
ribs. "This is from the kitchen," he said. "Sorry about the wait, the
cook said he wanted the kid to have something to eat." Marissa took the
plate, and we all nibbled on fries while Marissa scraped the meat off
the bones. The host reappeared, this time with his attention to me.

"Bad news for you," he said. "We're out of ribs, was there something you
wanted instead?" I laughed, glancing at Rodney's plate. "Dude, what an
honor," I joked. "You got the last ribs." I turned to the host. "I guess
I'll have the brisket."

The host, our waiter, and other people from the kitchen appeared moments
later with a fleet of plates. Our waiter handed me a second beer, the
shortly after the bartender approached our table with the same beer. "I
think that's a duplicate," I said gesturing at my full glass of beer.
The bartender offered it to Marissa, who meekly turned it away. She
remained at the side of our table for a moment, trying to convince me to
drink it, mumbling something about how *it's already on the table*. "I
don't want it," I said a little more assertively.

Marissa took Rodney to the bathroom, and as I said eating my plate, from
the corner of my eye I could see the host and the waiter staring at me
while I ate. The waiter made a few conspicuous laps around the dining
room, either glancing at me or asking me how things were each time he
passed. I started to get agitated with the extra attention. It was clear
our waiter was overcompensating in the spirit of damage control, and I
hated how it felt.

We paid or tab and left. We had about a half hour to play games at Dave
& Busters, and for a while it felt good to forget about our dinner
experience. Rodney played a spin-to-win game and scored a jackpot
earning him a free spin. An electronic alarm bell resounded through the
arcade, as the blinking and jittering screen flashed *1000 POINTS*.
Rodney spun the wheel again. Jackpot again. The alarm rang much more
loudly like a fire alarm with the same sustained ringing for two minutes
while the machine slowly counted up to 2000 points. I half expected the
Dave & Busters bouncers to come out of the back room as people walked
by, openly complaining about the alarm noise. "This machine is HOT!" I
yelled, as we wandered away to find another game. With almost 4000
points to spend at the end of our brief gaming session, the entire gift
shop was his oyster. He picked an extra large sticky hand, a dinosaur
hand puppet, and a remote control car. "THANK YOU," he yelled in a tiny
voice over the roar of the busy arcade. The girl at the counter beamed
back at him, waving us on.

After getting home, Marissa put Rodney to bed, then we both got to
cleaning up the house. Suddenly realizing how late it was, I started to
feel angry. We had spent most of the night waiting for our food at the
BBQ place. As I stood in the kitchen washing dishes and putting food
away, my thoughts raced. My teeth gritted as I mentally rehearsed
reaming out the waiter that had forgotten to put our order in. Marissa's
muffled voice could be heard in the kitchen. "What?" I said sharply,
turning off the sink and leaning into the dining room. "I can't hear you
from in there, I have no idea what you're saying." Marissa became sad,
staring down at the ground.

"I'm sorry," I said. "I'm really upset about dinner tonight, and I need
to talk about it." I continued to think while cleaning for a little
while longer. After reaching a stopping point, she joined me on the
couch with a bottle of water. "I've been screaming at that waiter in my
head. I think I'm really angry and bitter, and after thinking about it,
I think it clicked," I said. Marissa patiently listened on the couch.

"I'm actually mad at myself for not sticking up for us. I know we joke
about how we have bad luck with waiters and eating out, but I'm worried
that we're pushovers, you know?" Marissa nodded.

"We like to give people the benefit of the doubt, but you're right, you
have a point," she said.

"I'm just so upset that we left that place, and I was the one who felt
crummy. That place should have been embarrassed, it took us an hour to
get our food, and we had a three year old sitting at the table. Rodney
went to bed late, we had less time at the arcade - it kind of messed up
the whole night. We wanted to finish putting the house back tonight." I
said, wringing my hands in frustration.

"You're right," said Marissa. "We should have made a plan, and walked
away. Yelling at the waiter wouldn't have solved anything, but
absolutely should have just left."

I perked up. "Yeah, I like that," I said. "Next time this happens, I
think we should just leave. I should have walked over to our waiter and
just said 'Hey, this took way too long, and I'm sorry but we're
leaving,'. I wouldn't have to make a scene out of it, but at least I
don't just hold onto the frustration and take it out on you."

" - not that it's their fault I snipped at you," I continued. "I'm sorry
about that."

I feel good about where we left things, and I'm grateful Marissa had the
wisdom to help us find a middle ground. "Let's just have a plan next
time," she repeated like a refrain. I nodded. "This feels good. I feel
like I would normally just hold onto this anger. I should have acted,
and left all this at the restaurant."

Thanks for stopping by today. Thanks for reading, and I hope you have a
wonderful Sunday.

