---
title: todo lists, banana peels, grilled cheese, and concrete
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for stopping by this Wednesday morning.
As this February plunges us back into the depths of winter with harsh
winds and freezing temperature, I hope you're still managing to stay
warm.

I'm feeling good today. This morning I brewed a double batch of coffee,
I skipped showering, and wardrobe wise I'm shooting for maximum comfort
and minimal presentation. I'm ready to hunker down and have a productive
remote day.

Yesterday was productive as well. When I get to work in the mornings, I
usually spend the first half hour of my day making a list of things I'd
like to accomplish, but for the first time yesterday I assigned times to
work on things as well. I planned the whole day out - work, lunches,
breaks, and walks - all the way until quitting time. Setting aside time
to work on something makes a huge difference, and I couldn't recommend
it more.

I worked on code all morning, then for lunch, walked over to the novelty
cheese shop on the square to pick up a sandwich. I cut the big sandwich
in half, bagging the other half to take home later, and plated it up
with some pita chips, a fun sized snickers bar, and a diet coke, taking
the plate over to my desk to dine while catching up on YouTube videos.

After finishing my lunch, I relocated to a chair in the kitchen to read
up on some documentation. I was supposed to do research on another
team's solution for something my team was building, but I went down a
bit of a rabbit hole skimming through the rest of their documentation.
It's amazing how differently other teams at the same company can
operate. Later in the afternoon, my manager pulled up a chair next to
me, spending a coffee break chatting with me about what I was reading.
"I'm overwhelmed," I said. "There's a lot more information here than I
thought there would be, just slowly taking it in, ya know?" Heath
sleepily nodded, taking another sip of coffee before heading back to his
desk.

Later in the afternoon, I got up to take a long walk around the square.
It was chilly outside. The wind was picking up, and the ground was still
wet from melting snow, but it felt good to get outside and stretch my
arms and legs. I walked around the square and up by the terrace. I spent
a few minutes throwing snowballs off the balcony, trying to land one in
the lake. It's much further than it looks.

At quitting time, I wrapped up my TODO list, and concluded the day by
re-watching a recipe video for tomato bisque while making a grocery
list. I jumped on a bus home, finding Marissa on the couch. She had a
bad day - some lady at Home Depot made a passing comment that bummed her
out, so I was eager to get Rodney out of the house and give her some
alone time.

From the back seat of our car, Rodney brought me up to speed with his
day - everything he could still remember, coming out of his deep
afternoon nap, anyway. At Hy-Vee, he helped himself to one of the free
bananas they set out for kids, but after taking three bites, he decided
he didn't want it anymore. I finished eating it by default as we picked
up canned tomatoes, sourdough bread, and vegetables.

At the checkout aisle, I asked Rodney to take the banana peel to the
garbage. Rodney dutifully nodded and slipped through the queue of
shoppers to the customer service counter, where there is usually a
little plastic garbage can. The garbage wasn't there today. Rodney stood
in a circle and spun, before spotting a garbage further back by the
doors. He ran over, stuffed the peel in the garbage, then turned to face
the aisles. Our eyes met, Rodney waved, then he ran back to meet me.
Waving at me before rejoining me in line was actually his contribution
to this ritual. Rodney adapts to new responsibilities well. Even in
something as silly as throwing a banana peel away in the grocery store,
it's fun to stand back and watch him relish in the independence.

After unloading the groceries at home, I got to cutting vegetables and
simmering the soup base in the kitchen. Marissa climbed off the couch
and joined me in the kitchen to talk, venting about her frustration with
the day. As she reflected, I offered her off-cuts of the Irish cheddar I
was grating for the grilled cheese sandwiched we'd eat with our tomato
soup. She appreciated the listening ear, and I appreciated the company.

We ate dinner at the table. The grilled cheese sandwiches, which had
cheese melted on the inside and crisped on the outside, were another
effortless success thanks to my favorite new nonstick pan.

After dinner, we put Rodney to bed, then go to work in the basement.
Marissa was laying down self-leveling concrete. We had done two bags the
night before, and being more familiar with the process (and armed with a
mixing drill attachment dug out of Marissa's old resin gear), were much
more efficient. While Marissa dumped the concrete and spread it with a
squeegee, I'd fetch a bag of concrete from the car and 5 quarts of water
in a bucket. I'd cut the bag while she mixed the solution, then we'd
repeat. We dumped six bags of concrete on the basement floor. It was
gratifying watching the smooth, grey paste fill in the cracks and
scratches of the basement floor. It moved and blended like a french
paste, or that quick hardening chocolate you pour over icecream.

Exhausted, and still covered in concrete dust, we sealed off the
basement before heading upstairs to finish chores. At 11, I grabbed a
beer out of the fridge and Marissa joined me on the couch with the other
half of the sandwich I bought for lunch. I was feeling sore, in the good
way. Nothing makes you feel more deserving of a beer than moving bags of
concrete around.

Hope you have a wonderful day today. I'm going to go hang out downstairs
with the Rodman and make a list of what I'd like to accomplish today.
Thanks for reading, and happy Wednesday.

