---
title: missing cream, cutting the new table, and twister
banner: 2020-11-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday and welcome to the new work
week.  I don't know about you, but for me work gets a little easier
around this time of the year.  The office gets a little quieter as
most people take time off.  Perhaps I would be a little more gung-ho
about using PTO in these last two months, but there's not much work to
do anyway.  Throughout the holidays, we avoid pushing new code out,
and we avoid starting any big projects, so things kind of naturally
mellow out.  It's a great time of the year to catch up computer
chores, like emails and software updates.  On top of everything, we
have a short week with the work week ending on Wednesday.  This might
be a socially busy time of the year for us, but at least I can look
forward to some down time in other areas of life.

_Sip_.  How are the battle plans coming along for Thanksgiving dinner?
Currently, my top priority is cooking as much food as possible to make
more space in the fridge.  We have so much action happening in there
that I couldn't even be bothered to save our mediocre leftovers from
last night's dinner.

Speaking of which, linking to the last night's [Chicken Gaston Gerard]
recipe, I caught a glimpse of the first video frame in which Chef
Stephane has all the ingredients laid out on his cutting board.  In
plane sight, his _mise en place_ included a cup and a half of heavy
cream, and all at once it dawned on me that I accidentally omitted a
major ingredient from the sauce.  It's no wonder why I had so much
trouble getting the sauce to stay together - problems like that crop
up when you leave out small things like a cup and a half of cream.

"Check it out," said Marissa waving the leftover container.  "You
managed to make a little science exhibit, it's like the layers of the
earth."

The chicken I had stuffed into a tupperware container sat on three
distinct layers of congealed cheese, oil, and broth.  Later in the
night, I would flip it all right into the garbage can, letting the
mess slip into the bin like a melting, fatty chicken popsicle.  In the
coming weeks after we've exhausted Thanksgiving leftovers, I'll have
to take another pass at the cheesy chicken recipe.

[Chicken Gaston Gerard]: https://youtu.be/bFHe6hpoQGM

In other news, the big project of the week was the new desk we're
installing in our bedroom.  To recap, we're replacing my stubby little
floating desk with a longer rounded one that reaches all the way to
the end of the wall.  I'll work in the same place, but I'll have a
cozy "co-pilot" seat beside me, which will come in handy when Marissa
and I plan out the week.

Rodney and I followed Marissa outside to retrieved the giant board
from our shed, wrestling it out of the rest of the clutter and setting
it on top of metal chairs.  Marissa diligently translated the
dimensions onto the board with a sharpie.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-11-23-cutting.jpg">
<img alt="2020 11 23 cutting" src="/images/2020-11-23-cutting.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Measuring out the new table.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

"This is the underside of the table," she said handing us each a
Sharpie.  "So if you want, you cool dudes can doodle something."

Rodney used his sharpie to add his own measurements to the table.
Between the two of us, I was the juvenile one that wrote _BLIPPI
SUCKS_ in permanent black ink.  With that, I exhausted my usefulness
to the team and went inside to make a round of hot chocolate while
Rodney and Marissa labored over the table.  Rodney followed Marissa
around with his plastic drill, his night vision goggles affixed to his
face.

Later in the weekend, Marissa would set up the carefully cut wood on
the deck to apply wood stain throughout the day.  The table, now
shimmering with a rich dark color, was starting to get us excited.

"I'm really proud of this one," said Marissa.  "I can't wait to set it
up upstairs."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-11-23-stained.jpg">
<img alt="2020 11 23 stained" src="/images/2020-11-23-stained.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>The new table, stained and waiting to be mounted on brackets.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

We also spent some time this weekend attempting to play Twister.  We
got the idea after watching Rodney hop around on the rug in the play
corner, using colorful dots in the pattern as platforms in lava.
After picking up our own official copy from Target, we talked Rodney
into using up his after dinner Rodney time to try it out.

"Left hand green," said Marissa.  I groaned, bending over to plant my
hand on the mat.  Rodney stared blankly.

"Oh no, he doesn't know left and right yet," laughed Marissa.  "This
could be kind of difficult."

I reached over and tapped Rodney's left hand.  "This one, dude," I
said.  Rodney, acting like he was tracking with the game, smiled and
tapped me on my arm in return.

The first game of Twister was a disaster, but things really got out of
hand when Rodney got a hold of the spinner.  He would march around
with it the rest of the evening begging me to play _spot on spot_ with
him while he called out imaginary commands from the _small wheel
unfortunate_ - all terms he coined from his own imagination.

"Twister sucks," I said, walking back into the kitchen after putting
Rodney to bed.

"That was a hasty purchase," said Marissa.  "I should have seen the
whole 'left vs right' problem coming.  Honestly we should have just
played hot lava on the rug."

"At least he likes the mat," I laughed.  "He can incorporate it into a
pillow fort or something."

Twister sucks.  To call it a "game", I think is misleading.  It's
about time we call Twister what it really is - a lazy, randomly
generated yoga routine over a crinkly mat in close proximity to each
other.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Monday, everyone.
