---
title: writer's block, diaper angels, and roasted chicken
banner: 2020-05-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is your Wednesday feeling so far?  This
morning, I'm feeling tired.  It turns out that these new babies are
kind of a lot of work.  And the thing that really sucks about new
babies is that three outfits and four diapers later, when they're
finally at rest in the crib, you still have to do all the other stuff
that needs to get done in your house.  The laundry, the dishes, the
food, taming the daily wreckage of toy cars and foam ninja weapons
that find themselves strewn across the living room every day.  The
wheel must remain unbroken, and the show must go on.

But I'm grateful to be here, staring a fresh Wednesday in the face.
Marissa is feeling good today too.  As I was winding up for the day by
unloading the dishwasher and taking some notes on the computer, she
joined me in the dining room about an hour earlier than usual.

"I have a good feeling about today," she said waggling her eye brows,
staring down a bowl of bone-dry frosted flakes.  "I woke up today, and
I _didn't_ feel like crying!"  We clinked coffee mugs.  Hormones are a
_helluva_ drug, aren't they?

As things get busier, my life gets harder to write about.  For the
first time ever in my journaling campaign, I'm plagued with a loss of
words.  Morning entries take longer to write, and I find myself
staring at an empty buffer for uncomfortably long stretches of time,
or I'll finish a wall of text, and sigh in disappointment seeing that
I'm still a few hundred words short.  Maybe 315,000 words into this,
I've just run out of all the easy things to talk about.  Maybe I've
had less time to reflect about things.  Maybe this is just writer's
block.

Whatever the issue is, the anecdote, as always, is just to keep
writing.  And perhaps I've gone off the deep end with this quarantine
bread making hobby, but I'd like to make the case that yeast and
writing can be very similar.

You can't really force yeast to make bread for you, just like you
can't force writing to happen - but you can improve the conditions in
which it happens.  You can feed yeast, keep it in a dark warm place,
and above all give it lots of time to adjust and adapt.

And what I'm learning about bread is that yeast shines when times are
tough.  In the sourdough recipe I'm trying, the dough is moved to the
fridge overnight to intentionally slow down the yeasts's growth and
digestion.  The added difficulty creates a more unique and complex
flavor profile.  I'd like to thing the same can be said about writing,
which is why in moments like these, when I can feel the word well
drying up and writer's block at my back like a dark rain cloud, it's
important to keep writing.

_Sip_.  Rodney and I began our day at the breakfast table.  I fried
him an egg with cheese, and placed the whole mess on a stove charred
tortilla.

"Yum!" he exclaimed.  "I _love_ quesadillas."

"Dude, did you know that when you were little, you didn't eat eggs?" I
said, cutting the open faced quesadilla in half for us to share.  "It
used to drive me crazy.  How many different things can you make in the
morning without eggs?  But you like eggies now, right?"

Rodney raised his tiny plastic fork in the air, like a toast.  "To
eggs," I said stately, raising my fork in the air alongside him.y

We polished off our breakfast, then headed outside to play hockey.
The sun was warm, and after playing on the blacktop for a few minutes,
we shed our hoodies and jackets, working up a sweat.  Forty-five
minutes later, we were both doubled over, breathing heavily from
chasing the ball around the parking lot.

"Let's go back home," said Rodney.  I nodded, and we trudged our way
back to our house.  I grabbed the coffee pot and collapsed into a lawn
chair.  "You go play dude," I said.  "I'm going to take a little
break."

We hung out outside for a bit, throwing a baseball around and shooting
some basketball before heading inside to cool down, dragging a big box
of delivered diapers into the house on our way.  I sat on the couch,
holding Miles while Marissa showered, and Rodney began fiddling with
the diapers.

Miles stared at me blankly with wide eyes, quietly gurgling and
blowing spit bubbles.  I made silly faces at him.  A diaper landed at
my feet, catching my attention.

"What are you up to there, dude?" I laughed.  Rodney looked up from a
pile of diapers.  He had taken out all 198 newborn diapers out of the
wrapping and scattered them on the floor.  Marissa came down the
stairs and smiled.

"That looks fun," she said.  "Dude, make a diaper snow angel," she
said, egging Rodney on as he leaped onto the mound and flashed a grin
for the camera.

We heated up some leftovers for lunch, and Rodney went upstairs for
quite time while I caught up on my French Cooking videos.  Yesterday,
we covered knife skills and vegetable preparation.  Inspired by the
formal rigor of the French kitchen, I decided to practice the skills
by thoroughly cleaning and prepping our batch of red bell peppers over
the sink with a pairing knife.

"Could I get some help in Rodney's room," said Marissa, beckoning me
through the baby monitor.  I walked upstairs, holding a few off cuts
of bell pepper.  Rodney snatched one from my hand as he climbed into
the tub.

"I feel like I've just been covered by poop and pee all day," said
Marissa.  "I need a beer."

After getting Rodney cleaned up, Marissa and I cracked open a beer and
sunk into the swinging porch seat.  Mesquite smoke wafted into the air
through the little holes in the grill.  Rodney grunted, trying to worm
his way in between us.

"No dude," said Marissa.  "Momma kind of needs a little break."

"Go play dude," I said.  Rodney slinked away letting out a sigh.

"No sighing, Rodney," scolded Marissa.  "We don't like that attitude."
We eyeballed Rodney as he slowly, stubbornly stepped off the porch.

"It's been a rough day," said Marissa.  Tears were welling up in her
eyes.

"Yeah, but this is kind of a nice moment, right?" I said, raising a
beer.  Miles was silently sleeping inside, and Rodney was fiddling
around in his playhouse.  "I feel like I've barely seen you today,
this is kind of nice."

The oven timer rang, and I reluctantly got off my chair to finish the
rice.  Rodney took my seat beside Marissa while I was gone.  Through
the screened kitchen window, I could see Marissa saying something to
Rodney, then leaning in for a long hug.

"Would you guys set the table?" I said leaning out the door.  I lifted
the cover off the grill.  The chicken was crispy, and the bell beppers
had gone soft, blistering from the smoky heat.  Rodney was first to
clean his plate.

"You were hungry, dude," I laughed.  "I guess we're going to have to
start giving you more than just the wings."  Rodney nodded.

"What are we gonna do when we have to big hungry boys at the table?" I
asked looking at Marissa.  "I'm going to have to make a whole chicken
for each of them!"

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Wednesday.
