---
title: cleaning my cutting board, daylight savings, and rodney's dance
banner: 2020-10-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Wednesday.  It feels good to already
be here in the middle of the week, doesn't it?  Per Marissa's
recommendation, I put in for some time off at work.  About three weeks
from now, she's having another virtual art show over the weekend, and
I'm going to take off for the three days leading up to it.  I'll
mildly help out, but mostly I expect to just loaf around the house and
hang out with Rodney.  I'm already looking forward to it.

I absolutely killed it with the chores this morning.  I finished the
dishes, wiped down the cabinets and the counters, swept the floor, and
I cleaned my heavy wooden cutting board.

For most of my tenure as a home cook, I think I've been cleaning my
cutting board wrongly.  My first hunch was to scrub it with the
hottest water we have in our kitchen sink, but the rough treatment
seemed to make it unhappy.  The wood dried out too much.  Looking pale
and unhappy, on the driest winter days it would even start to warp and
split.

I think I've cracked the code.  My dad used to tell me that taking
care of wood is the same as taking care of skin.  At the time being a
pale, pimply, ashy teen, I didn't know what to do with that bit of
advice.  But something clicked, and now I see the wisdom in that
analogy.

To make the analogy even weirder, I think washing my cutting board is
a lot like giving a kid a bath.  Hot water is better than cold water,
but the water can't be too hot.  The soft side of the sponge is better
than the scratchy side.  Don't leave it under the water for too long,
and when you're done, dry it down immediately and leave it to sit
comfortably on blocks with a generous coating of mineral oil.

Luckily, like skin, wood also heals.  I cringe thinking about how I
used to carelessly flip the wooden board around my sink under scalding
hot water, but I'm grateful for tools that are tough enough to outlast
your mistakes.

_Sip_.  When was the last time you washed your cutting board?  How are
you feeling today?  It's a beautiful day outside.  Lately, I've really
been enjoying how the sky goes from pitch black to full daylight in
the hour that I wind up for the morning.  But with daylight savings
around the corner, I suppose that serendipity is all about to fly out
the window.

Let me get on the record with this: daylight savings is stupid, and we
should just knock it off already.  And it doesn't seem like it would
be that hard to stop.  Just put out an urgent news bulletin or an
emergency notification.  Send out an amber alert text to every phone
in America that says _daylight savings sucks, we're not doing it
anymore_.

At least this is the good one - the one where we get an extra hour of
sleep.  The same hour we forfeited last spring.  See, it's kind of
like a tax return, isn't it?  Only it's the same amount of money every
time - like a no interest loan given to nobody for absolutely no
reason.

_Sip_.  Had to get more coffee, there.  Daylight savings got me
unexpectedly riled up, and I'm in need of a topic change.  How about
we talk about Marissa's dinner?

Marissa made chicken curry last night, and it was delicious.  She was
having so much fun in the kitchen, we even temporarily lifted my
Tuesday night kitchen ban.

"Chef John says that the way to make good curry is to toast the spices
ahead of time," said Marissa.  I leaned over the stove, letting the
warm aroma of turmeric and cumin fill my nostrils.  She would go on to
add garlic, chopped chicken thighs, broccoli, and heavy cream.

"I decided not to use coconut milk," she said.  "Think that's OK?"

"Definitely," I said.  "Not into the coconut milk.  Cream tastes way
better."

After much anticipation, we sat down at the table to dig in.  The
bright yellow sauce covered the chicken and white rice like a heavy,
steamy blanket.

"Oh, it's spicy," I chuckled.  My nose was wet, and I spun around in
my chair to grab the napkins off the shelf.

"It _is_ spicy," said Marissa.  "Sorry about that fam."

"No, it's delicious," I said.  "Just unexpected.  But perfect for a
cold day like this.  What'd you use?"

"Cayenne," said Marissa.  "I did a whole shake.  A _confident_ shake."

Rodney was not a fan, but with the help of some creme fraiche, he
soldiered on and finished his plate.

After dinner, we had a zoom session with my family, and before getting
Rodney ready for bed we gathered in the bedroom for workouts.

Evening weekday workouts have turned into a whole family affair.  At
first, it was just something I started to stay in shape for
quarantine, but Marissa and Rodney joined.  Monday through Friday, we
do pull-ups with a pull-up bar underneath my closet frame, then
push-ups and sit-ups on the hallway rug.  Rodney shows up for comedic
relief in between sets.

"Wait!  We have one more," he said after we got up.  "Momma, dadda,
one more workout."  He stood stubbornly in the upstairs hallway,
blocking us from leaving.  He waited until he had our attention.

"You have a workout for us?" I asked.

"Yeah," said Rodney.  "Do _this_."

Rodney slightly bent his knees.  He stuck his butt out behind him.  He
balled his hands into fists.  He began to gently pump his arms, like
he was piloting skis, swaying from his left to his right.

Marissa and I watched as Rodney carried out his strangely coordinated
dance.  A smile spread across Marissa's face.  I bit my fist, trying
not to laugh.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-28-rodneys-workout.png">
    <img alt="2020 10 28 rodneys workout" src="/images/2020-10-28-rodneys-workout.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"That's great, dude," said Marissa.  "Can I try?"

The three of us stood side by side, doing Rodney's strange little
dance.  We looked like a motown troupe.  We looked like back-up
singers.

"Thanks for the suggestion, Rodney," said Marissa, still withholding
her laughter.  "How about we add this to the workouts?"

"I think... I think that's a great idea," said Rodney out of breath.

So the routine is pull-ups, push-ups, sit-ups, and as of late, a funny
little dance that Rodney invented.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a great day today.
