---
title: my inner monologue, sulk forts, and quarantine
banner: 2020-12-03.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  It's a good day to give your
work one last push so you can go into the weekend with something to
celebrate.  I'm feeling good today.  I've been getting some good sleep
this week and keeping up with my chores.  This morning while shaking
off the bags under my eyes, I wiped out our microwave, scoured our
stove, and I even relocated a wayward jumping spider.  Her new home on
a window sill in the windiest corner of our deck wasn't the most ideal
situation, but if I were a spider I'd rather face the cold than get
washed down the sink with old sourdough starter and baby food.

_Sip_.  How is the spider population doing in your house?  And how was
your day yesterday?

For me, yesterday was a typing day.  I typed words in slack, in google
docs, in emails, and in work tickets.  I typed explanations, answers,
questions, recommendations, and details.  So much typing.

Do you remember those days before COVID where you were practicing a
presentation or leading a meeting for people and you get sick of the
sound of your own voice?  While working remote, I've noticed that the
same thing can happen to me, except with my internal monologue.  For
me, that's when things like podcasts and movies are therapeutic.
Sometimes I just want to quiet the inner monologue, and the most
effective way to do that is to find an external monologue to distract
it.  Like handing a shiny set of car keys to a baby.

"It just feels like one of those days where all I've done today is
bother people on slack," I joked with my team over Zoom.

Meanwhile, downstairs in the living room Rodney was having a different
kind of mood swing.  Coming downstairs to refill on coffee, I passed
by one of his trademark _sulk forts_, newly erected from pillows,
blankets, and dog beds.  Even though I couldn't see his head or his
body, he mysteriously detected my presence.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-03-sulk-fort.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 03 sulk fort" src="/images/2020-12-03-sulk-fort.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"I'm just a little tired," said Rodney with a sad muffled voice.  "I'm
just a little sad."

"OK, dude," I called back into the pillow fort.  "Lemme know if you
need anything."

"What's with the sulk fort," I said, grabbing a seat by Marissa at the
dining room table.

"It's a no TV morning," said Marissa.  "He didn't take the news well."

The most common catalyst for a sulk fort morning is when we refuse to
turn the TV on for Rodney when he wants it.  Rodney's mild temperament
keeps him from throwing dramatic fits or embellishing boyish tantrums.
Typically, he just quietly whimpers like a puppy, slinking away with
his choice blankets and pillows.

"This time, he growled at me though," said Marissa.

"He _growled_?" I asked.  "What do you mean he _growled_?"

"He growled." laughed Marissa.  "I told him he couldn't watch _Blaze_
this morning, and he started growling at me."

"Did you grab his neck scruff?" I laughed.  "Put him in his crate?
Put him on his back to assert dominance?"

To be clear, Marissa and I aren't anti TV.  I think kids are people,
and all people should have the right to shut off their brain during
their favorite time of the day.  But what we've noticed with letting
kids watch TV is that it's only effective for so long.  About three
hours into a _Bubble Guppies_ binge, even Rodney gets bored.  So we
budget TV time - not because we think it's bad, but because we want to
really capitalize on something that keeps him out of our hair.

And to be honest, sulk fort mornings can be excellent.  Rodney hasn't
caught on to the fact that ignoring mom and dad for an entire morning
while they drink coffee isn't the devastating sanction he thinks it
is.  Sulk fort mornings are like a paid holiday - not only do you get
a quiet morning by yourself, but you earn an even quieter afternoon
later in the day, thanks to the _Bubble Guppies_ card.

With the help of a PB&J and some goldfish crackers, Rodney finally
snapped out of his funk by lunch time.  He was feeling much happier
when he found me in the kitchen wiping down his magna-tiles.

"What you doing, dada?" he asked.

"I'm cleaning your magna-tiles, dude," I said.  "It's been on our
project board for like four weeks now, and I'm sick of looking at it."

"I have an idea," said Rodney.  "I help you."  Rodney dug his step
ladder out of the corner, climbing up beside me at the counter.  He
snatched the bottle of Windex.

"You can totally help me, dude," I said.  "Thanks.  We don't want
water to get trapped in there, so I'm just giving them a little spritz
and wiping them down."

I'm always impressed with Rodney's alacrity to help out around the
house.  Whether we're cleaning up the kitchen, picking up toys, or
working in the yard, Rodney sniffs out the work and joins the crew
with his plastic bag of tools.  As a kid, I don't ever remember
actively looking for work to do around the house.

After we had finished cleaning the magna-tiles, Marissa discretely
waved me over to the computer.  "Dada, I have to show you something,"
she said opening a window.  She was on Ticket Master shopping for
seats to see Dude Perfect live.

"Woah," I said, pulling up a seat.  "When is this happening."

"July of 2021," said Marissa.  "Most things I read say a vaccine will
be ready in the spring."

"And we have been talking about doing something special when
quarantine ends," I added.

"We also have two weddings the same month," laughed Marissa.  "Summer
of 2021 is going to be busy."

"And just think about it," I laughed.  "We're going to be so whiny.  I
bet we're going to be exhausted from actually doing things next year."

I've been thinking a lot about Rodney's composure during this
quarantine.  Full disclosure, while working late at night on the
computer a week ago, a picture of us at Dave and Busters appeared on
our randomized computer wallpaper, and I immediately bursted into
tears.

Quarantine has been profoundly challenging - not for the things
Marissa and I are missing out on, but for was Rodney and Miles are
missing.  It makes me angry that the high points of his banal week are
playing hide and seek with his parents or talking to his cousins
through a computer.

Please stay home.  Please wear a mask when you go out.  Please avoid
seeing anyone you don't live with and you don't take care of.

Thanks for stopping by.  Stay healthy, everyone.
