---
title: snacks, the virtual gallery, and a rodney time strikeout
banner: 2020-11-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Take a look at _this_ spread.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-11-15-snacks.jpg">
<img alt="2020 11 15 snacks" src="/images/2020-11-15-snacks.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Two pieces of buttered bread baked only a few hours before.  Some soft
European cheese I got from a coworker for a bread trade.  Two dark
chocolate rocky road bars fresh out of the freezer.  And goldfish
crackers garnished with a small handful of fruit loops.  This was my
curation to go with our new favorite regular pinot.  Thank God for
snacks.

And thank God for the weekend.  How has your weekend been?  Feeling
ready to start everything over again on Monday?  It's been an odd past
couple of days for us.  We went into this weekend with very different
expectations for what this online art gallery would be like.  Marissa
stayed up until three in the morning re-uploading nearly her entire
online store onto this new website for the event.  She gutted her
studio, thinking she would be swamped all weekend with Zoom calls.
She dug out her best outfit from the back of her closet, and on Friday
afternoon our whole family was all hands on deck.

Nobody came to her zoom room.  And I'm not surprised - it took the two
of us nearly an hour troubleshooting the website, trying to wire up
her personal zoom room to a mysterious button on her profile that was
practically impossible to find.  With nearly three hours remaining in
her office hour window, Marissa gave up and fell asleep on the couch,
still wearing her nicest outfit.  She was disappointed, but she still
had me, her loving husband, to tease her about it.  At 4:45 PM, I
knelt by the couch to gently shake her.

"Hey honey," I whispered gently.  "You've still got fifteen minutes
left in your gallery.  I know you're really swamped dealing with
people right now, but you can sign off in a few minutes and take a nap
if you want."  Marissa shook her head and went back to sleep.

Not to say that the whole effort was a bust.  The remote meet and
greet thing didn't catch on, but she still sold some paintings.  And
with the studio cleaned, she cranked out a quick Instagram live
session earlier this evening.  Baby Miles and I listened in from
upstairs in the dining over a bowl of banana baby mash.

_Sip_.  What else is going on.  Ah, I had a quick note on yesterday's
entry, "stories about playing drums".  When retelling the story of the
homeless guy who starting improvising a song in the middle of our
small worship service, I have to admit that I fudged some of the
details for the sake of prose.  My dad reminded me of what he actually
sang.

"_I'm gonna wear a robe on that day_... repeated 36 times or so," said
my dad.  "We felt super awkward."

I appreciate the detail.  I didn't feel like I had adequately captured
how awkward it was.  If he had sung a song with a clear verse and
chorus, we at least would have been assured that the song had to have
an ending.  But the same line over and over?  Who knows how long he
would have kept singing.  For five minutes?  Thirty minutes?  Rocking
back and forth, singing _I'm gonna wear a robe on that day_ over and
over to a dumbfounded audience.

And speaking of the Saturday stories, I hope you don't mind that I
scaled back on the word count.  When I first had the idea to use
Saturday's journal to tell stories from my past, my enthusiasm burned
bright.  I had ambitions to cover these stories and topics
exhaustively and passionately.  My enthusiasm dwindled, and I was
reminded that I'm only on the hook for 1000 words a day.  If I really
intend to do this every day for the rest of my life, I had better save
some stories and pace myself.

Marissa and I stood out on the deck watching the dogs run out into the
yard.  We shared more stories about playing in bands and participating
in musical extracurriculars.  Don't worry - I have more stories about
playing drums, and I'll undoubtedly have to circle back one of these
Saturdays.

In other news, the institution of _Rodney Time_ continues to make a
splash in our home life.  For the first time last night, Rodney struck
out.  The timer, purring in the center of the dining room table, rang
aloud.  Rodney nervously glanced at his plate.  He had finished his
single slice of cheese pizza, but barely put a dent in his salad.  I
craned my head across the table.

"Sorry dude," I said somberly.  "You barely touched your salad."

Rodney kicked his feet in his booster seat.  "Does that mean..." his
lip quivered.  "Does that mean I no get _Rodney Time_?"  A knot formed
in Rodney's throat as he blinked away tears.

"I'm sorry dude," I said.  "We like Rodney time too.  But you have to
learn to finish your dinner on time."

Rodney slowly slid his last cherry tomato into his mouth, swirling the
rest of the wet lettuce at the end of his fork.  He finished his bowl
and sauntered upstairs.  As soon as he left the room, Marissa and I
exchanged mournful looks.

"That was tough," I said.

"Tough, but good," answered Marissa.

The ordeal was on his mind while we were talking to Pappa Wilke over
Zoom.  Out of turn, Rodney leaned into the camera to share what was on
his mind.

"Pappa Wilke, I didn't get _Rodney Time_ tonight, it kinda makes me
sad," said Rodney.  We brought Pappa up to speed, explaining Rodney's
slow eating problem as well as the _Rodney Time_ remedy we came up
with.

"I always eat my food," said Pappa Wilke.  "I clean my plate so I can
be healthy and strong."

"Yeah?" said Rodney with a goofy smile.  "Do you get _Pappa Wilke
Time_?"

I put Rodney to bed, reminding him that he had another shot the next
day at the dinner table.  "It's OK dude," I said, offering parting
words while shutting his bedroom light off.  "Do better tomorrow, do
it for _Rodney Time_."

Tonight, Rodney channeled his frustration into cleaning his bowl.  He
had the last wedge of his cabbage calzone stuffed into his cheek, and
there were four minutes to spare.  We'd spend the first five minutes
of Rodney time just cheering, dancing, and parading around the living
room.  Then we played hide and seek.

It was a good time.  If you ask me, _Rodney Time_ is turning into
something the whole family looks forward to.

Thanks for stopping by tonight.  Have a great day, everyone.
