---
title: axes, dinosaur bites, garbage, and online groceries
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to Friday.  I hope you're feeling
well-rested this morning.

I have an interesting bit of blog trivia for you.  Yesterday marked a
full year from when I started making public _semi-daily_ journal
entries (see [party, dumplings, and blogging]).  I spent some of
yesterday morning reminiscing and paging through old posts.
Waterparks.  Outdoor concerts.  Parties.  Cookouts.  What a different
time it was, huh?

_Sip_.  Looking at the clock, I see my soft deadline of 9:30 AM sailed
by a long time ago.  I blame my wife for that.  After a late night of
drinking beer and editing videos together, the odds of achieving a
timely morning were already stacked against me, but Marissa pretty
much sealed the deal when she beat me to the coffee pot and brought it
upstairs.

Last night, Marissa and I were getting ready for a big weekend sale.
Marissa made about fifty short videos holding each painting in her
inventory against a light.  Removing the audio and fixing the
orientation on these proved to be an interesting, but gratifying
scripting challenge.  I make it sound like a big deal, but in reality
it was just five minutes of research, ten minutes of watching a script
comb over a folder of video files, then a bit of running around to put
each computer in the house to work uploading the videos in batches of
fifteen - an obnoxious limitation courtesy of YouTube.

Long story short, if your are currently the victim of a sad, blank
wall in your home, tomorrow would be a great day to buy some art from
[Astuary Art].

Yesterday also entailed an exciting trip to the local recycling
center.  As you could imagine, hunkered down in quarantine we've
accumulated an impressive amount of cardboard, Styrofoam, and scrap
wood.  And so after a quick breakfast, me and Rodney's morning began
out in the driveway under the hot sun holding axes, staring down a
defunct wooden dresser.

Rodney wasn't really holding an axe, by the way.  It was actually a
plastic mini-golf putter, but he took it just as seriously as I was.
Together under the hot summer sun, we hacked apart the dresser and
stacked the pieces of wood neatly in the corner.

Regrettably, Rodney incurred some injuries.  I always forget that
little kids don't intuitively know how to avoid splinters while
handling wood.  I can imagine his confusion feeling a sudden poking
sensation in his finger tip or in his wrist.  I didn't notice his
itchy, irritated hand it until later in the afternoon.

"What's up with your hand, dude?" I asked.

"That's just my _dinosaur bite_," he replied.

"Dinosaur bite?" I asked.  "Did a bug bite you?"

"Yeah!" replied Rodney.

"Was it a spider?" I asked.

"A big dragonfly," said Rodney.  "Crawling in my shirt."

"It crawled in your shirt?" I asked with concern.

"It's a dinosaur bite."  Rodney flexed his arm proudly.  At that
point, I resolved to do my best to not worry about it.  Clearly Rodney
wasn't worried about it.  No big deal - it's just a _dinosaur bite_.
Or a dragonfly.  Or whatever.

Our family piled in the car and made our way to the recycling center.
With only twenty minutes remaining in their operating hours, you can
imagine our sense of urgency barreling down East wash with a baby, a
toddler, and a medium sized family car filled to the brim with
garbage.

"Bridge out," said Marissa, reading an upcoming sign.  "Oh you have to
be kidding me."  Underneath a garbage bag filled with styrofoam, I
slipped my phone out of my pocket to navigate a detour.

"We made it," said Marissa in relief.  Parking in front of the
dumpster, each piece of wood and cardboard we flung into the open
dumpster felt more cathartic than the last.  Is there a better feeling
in the human experience than throwing away garbage?

A well deserved nap followed.  Rodney and I emerged from afternoon
sleep, and I decided to take him to the grocery store.

"Just a short errand," I clarified, changing him into a new pair of
clothes.  "We're going to stay in the car this time and let Hy-Vee get
our groceries."

That's right - Rodney and I finally decided to kick the tires on
Hy-Vee's online grocery pick-up, and I have to say I was pretty blown
away.  The process, from beginning to end, was pretty slick.  We
selected all the items from our short pilot grocery list, checked out
with the website, and used text notifications to signal when we were
on the way and when we parked.

For the essentials, it was a slam dunk.  Going through as much flour
as we do, I'd have a hard time complaining about ten pounds of flour
dropped into my trunk with only an afternoon's notice.  But we had a
little trouble with the produce.  From their webiste, it was hard to
tell what _1 qty_ of russet potatoes actually was.

"One potato?  But it says it's 0.8 pounds.  That has to be at least
three or four, right?" I pondered aloud at the computer.

It turns out it was just one potato.  And to go with our single russet
potato, our grocery curator also selected the saddest smooshed yellow
onion I've ever seen.

Rodney and I picked up Portillo's on the way home.  Hungry from the
active day, we scarfed down our fries, hot dogs, and Italian beef like
a pack of wolves.

_Sip_.  I have some other exciting news to share.  As it turns out, we
have the honor of hosting our cousin dog Jojo with us this weekend.
Auntie Kelly and Uncle Jeremy are en route to our house now.

"So Auntie Kelly says that Jojo likes to find interesting places to
sleep.  She might jump into our bath tub," I said to Marissa.

"Do we put a pillow and maybe a little blankie in the bath tub?" asked
Marissa.

"No, then it wouldn't be chilly," I replied.  "Clearly, Jojo likes a
chilly place to sleep."

"Maybe just a pillow," said Marissa.  "It can't be _too_ chilly."

Dogs can be so complicated.  I guess we'll just have to ask her when
she gets here.  Thanks for stopping by today, everyone.  Hope you have
a great holiday weekend.

[party, dumplings, and blogging]: https://www.alexrecker.com/2019-07-02.html
[Astuary Art]: https://www.astuaryart.com
