---
title: nesting, folding dirty laundry, and our awful basement
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. This morning, it
feels good to get back into the swing of things - quietly sneaking
downstairs to make coffee, showering, and digging clean clothes out of
my laundry bin. We've entered into the 'early morning nuisance' stage of
this cold, so although it's not pleasant, it's definitely surmountable.

*Sip*. Even though I'm a little tired this morning, I'm feeling pretty
good. Yesterday, Marissa and I spent most of the evening attacking
chores and projects. Speaking for both of us, I think we're about 80%
caught up with our chores. Looking back, January has always been kind of
a cleaning & project month for us, and with new baby Miles coming in the
late spring, I expect to really step it up with the help of nesting
instincts. This year, we're testing out a new three column whiteboard &
index card system, and if it works out, you'll hear more details later.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. Of all times and places to kick off the
new decade, our family chose 12:30 at Denny's, and to our surprise, it
was a pretty good experience. Our pancakes and coffee actually came out
so quickly, we found it startling. Sitting at Denny's, we talked through
the handful of errands we had to run - Target, Hobby Lobby, Office Max,
and Bed Bath and Beyond. Aided by a healthy American grand slam
breakfast, we cruised through all of them and returned home in the
afternoon. We fixed Rodney a pre-nap PB&J, set up our new project board,
then took a short break. Marissa caught a nap on the couch while I
played some Splinter Cell. The rest of the evening was leftovers,
bedtime, and work.

Here's a little moment of Zen from yesterday. Before putting Rod to bed,
I noticed his backup sheets were in the hamper, so I moved his dirty
laundry bin to the hallway, then changed Rodney into some pajamas. Some
minutes later, we were in bed reading a story, and Marissa wandered in
to see what we were doing. From the corner of my eye, I saw her folding
laundry in front of Rodney's closet. Finally after about five minutes of
reading Rodney's Bible story, I earmarked the page and looked up - "is
that Rodney's laundry?" I asked. Marissa dutifully nodded. I grimaced.
"That bin in the hallway was dirty clothes," I said. Marissa stopped
mid-folding to think. "I was wondering why just *some* of these pants
were still wet," she said as my grimace widened. She reluctantly picked
out all the soiled clothes she had put away.

Later that night, we found ourselves in the basement putting away
Christmas lights. Marissa had four seasonal decoration bins total -
three for Christmas and one for fall, and she insisted that all four
should fit on the shelf in the back basement. I claimed only three would
fit, and one would have to spend the summer on the floor, so she joined
be downstairs to educate me. As she was grunting, pinning a large
tupperware bin between her hip and the water heater all while her neck
crooked to avoid hitting her head on a cold metal duct, I broke out in
laughter. "Our basement gives me anxiety," I said aloud, quoting
something she admitted earlier in the evening while we were making home
project cards. The box finally slid into place, and Marissa and I
clambered through boxes, sawdust, and under the hazardous low ceiling.
We passed by the washing machine, which was violently shaking and had
take a lunge forward off its flimsy wheels. Marissa and I broke out into
more laughter. "This is the worst basement ever," she said. I nodded -
"it's literally a nightmare. Our house is built on a foundation of
anxiety," I pontificated as we trudged up the stairs.

Later that night, I promised to dedicate my entire journal entry to how
terrible our basement was. It probably wouldn't take an entire morning
entry to get my point across, but most weeks it really does seem like
all the unfinished work pools downstairs like a swamp of
procrastination. There's a fifty foot ethernet cable spooled in the
corner. The washer and dryer shake and wander away from their designated
position. There's an ad hoc packaging station set up in the corner with
empty card board boxes, and we've started referring to it as *the shanty
town*. Marissa's resin tent stands in the center, suspended from the
ceiling with tape and string in a way that both of us have forgotten how
to ever do again.

I feel hopeful for our basement. I'm hopeful for how productive we feel
in January, and I'm hopeful that with the nesting instincts, together
we'll rage against our least favorite room in the house and turn it into
something we're proud of.

So that's what I got today. In a few minutes, I'll jump out of my room
and catch a bus to work, where my new laptop is hopefully waiting.
Setting up a new laptop is kind of exciting. It's a chance to wipe the
slate clean, forever leaving the forgotten programs and deprectated
configuration files on my old laptop. And it will feel good to wipe the
slate - who doesn't like that? I unintentionally picked a great time to
start fresh, the spring cleaning vibes are strong with this month, and I
hope they produce some good results.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today, and that you march into your
basement, shed, garage, or whatever room gives you the most anxiety with
the cleaning fury of two nesting parents.

