---
title: coral, our last meal, and birthday cheese
---

Dear Journal,

This is the newest addition to our fish tank.  Marissa finally pulled
the trigger on a new coral, and it arrived here much sooner than she
expected.

"I had to learn _a lot_ about coral in a very short amount of time,"
she says.  "I didn't think they would ship it so soon, but I'm glad
it's here."

When I emerged from my office yesterday, she had the entire fish tank
taken apart, giving it a thorough cleaning for the new homecoming.
The new coral, just removed from the packaging, was sitting in a
plastic bowl in an inch of water.  I leaned in for a closer look.

"It kind of looks like a little mushroom or something," I said.
"Definitely something I could see myself accidentally eating."

"Yeah, I know you use those bowls for feeding _KRANG_ in the morning,
just don't accidentally grab that one," warned Marissa.

"Oh good call," I replied.  "Who knows what horrors would await if
_KRANG'S_ rascally genes were to mix with coral.  He would be
unstoppable."

If all goes according to plan, the coral will reproduce and cover the
entire live rock.  But for now, it's just a happy little mushroom
growing out of the top.

And now as I'm writing this, I realize that we didn't yet agree on a
name for the coral.  Personally, I think we should just delegate all
naming duties to Rodney.  He's been on a real hot streak lately, and I
like the names he comes up with: from his crane _Hauncy_, to his giant
green dinosaur _Flashla_.  I would like to see what he can come up
with for our weird little alien mushroom coral.

"So if this works out," explained Marissa.  "We can go ahead and get
another cleaning shrimp.  I think the tank is in much better shape."

"Ah, how are we dealing with... you know..." I replied.

"Oh, _Stephane_ is coming back from the vet finally.  He won't be red
anymore," said Marissa.

I like the idea of reusing names for fish of the same species.  It
makes it a little less sad when they pass on.  Stephane v1's life was
brief and tragic, but his spirit will live on with Stephane v2.

_Sip_.  Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  Grab a cup of
coffee, and get ready to hit the work day.  I'm feeling good today.  I
made a quick run to Mocha this morning to grab some supplementary
coffee while we wait for our next mail order.  The house is in good
order today, and I'm feeling quite satisfied with all the cleaning I
got done yesterday.

Wednesday chores are kind of a slog.  First I clean the microwave and
the stove.  And if I can finish that, I go onto gutting the fridge,
freezer, and the pantry.  Since this is every week, most weeks I sort
of "phone it in" for the freezer, just giving it a quick glance, or
maybe checking a few expiration dates that are within easy to reach.

But yesterday, I had the impulse to give the freezer a real cleaning.
I took everything out and set it on the counter: my five pound double
bagged stash of frozen baker's yeast.  A single frozen Hy-Vee chicken
from 2019.  Our eclectic collection of ice cube trays.  Even Marissa's
emergency Hershey bars hidden all the way in the back.

I'm not sure why, but Marissa likes to keep at least two Hershey bars
in the back of the freezer at all times.  It's quite a puzzle.  I
don't know where they come from, and I've never caught her in the act.
But there always there, ready to answer the call for any dire
chocolate emergencies we might have.

I also found two boxes of instant Zatarans meals in the back.  I
bought these back when Coronavirus first hit and we weren't sure how
hard it would be to get food.  The wheels started turning, and a few
minutes later, I trudged down the basement stairs into Marissa's art
studio with something behind my back.

"This is our last meal," I said cryptically.

"What?" said Marissa, looking up from her canvas.  "What are you
talking about?"

I held out a large ziploc bag in front of me.  I had labeled the
outside "LAST MEAL" with a black sharpie.  Inside were the two boxes
of Zatarans and the two emergency Hershey bars.  Marissa snickered.

This year has made me realize how uncertain and unstable things can
be.  Who knows what we'll be doing six months from now.  But now I can
take solace that if things go _really_ south and we're suddenly
confronted with the end of the world, Marissa and I will have one more
romantic dinner of Zatarans and Hershey's chocolate.

After getting our freezer in order, I moved onto the fridge.  Wiped
down the shelves, moved backups and duplicates toward the back, and
turned all the labels out.  And making Wisconsin proud, I took another
pass at my well groomed cheese drawer.  The other day, I bought a
little pack of camambert cheese with crackers.  I was planning on
breaking it out last night as an evening snack, but some instructions
on the box caught my eye.  According to the box, the cheese should be
left to ripen and soften until about a week before its expiration date
when it reaches peak flavor and complexity.

"October six..." I muttered, holding the cheese under my arm and
unlocking my phone with the other.  I counted backwards a week.
"September... twenty nine."

The camambert reaches its peak on September 29 - my birthday.  I guess
that couldn't have worked out any better.

{% include figure.html filename='birthday-camambert.jpg' %}

And speaking of my birthday, we had a close call yesterday.  After
lunch, seeing two padded envelopes on our front porch, I took a walk
outside to grab the mail.

"Dude, I think your comic books are here," I said to Rodney, tearing
the first envelope open.  I reached inside, but one of the envelopes
was _not_ a comic book.  It was a pack of Chicago Bears wrapping
paper.

"YOU ARE LUCKY," said Marissa snatching the envelope out of my hand.
"Lucky that it was _just_ the wrapping paper.  You would have been in
big trouble if you saw your present."

That's how I got myself banned from opening mail for the next week.
Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Thursday, everyone.

