---
title: dog parties, cloudmigos, and kelly and jeremy
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you are having a wonderful Saturday so far.
This morning, the words of Dr. Seuss come to mind - *A dog* *party! Big
dogs, little dogs, black dogs, white dogs, yellow dogs,* *blue dogs, and
red dogs are all at a dog party. What a dog party!* I'm referring to, of
course, Ollie and Ziggy running around the house and playing with Kelly
and Jeremy's dogs, Jo-Jo & Becca. This morning, the house feels like a
big wonderful dog party.

Meanwhile, as I was straightening things up and brewing coffee, Rodney
and his cousins sat at the table nibbling on stroopwafels and cereal.
Rodney would chime in with a half phrase, Frankie would reply with some
indecipherable baby talk, and then Alice would deliver an illogical
punchline that made all three of them erupt in laughter. "They remind me
of some rascally old people," I said. Jeremy smiled. "Yeah, the kind
that would get in trouble at a Dunkin' Donuts or something."

Yesterday was a good day. In the morning, I worked the support queue,
then worked on some old servers we were planning to decommission. I ran
the commands to shut them down, then stared at the flickering graph of
active requests and errors. It swelled, then trended down, holding just
below 100. "Ah dammit," I growled, hunched over my keyboard. If the
graph didn't consistently read zero, that meant other services still
expected these things to be up, and we'd have to track them down and try
again later. With lunch time encroaching, I begrudgingly turned them
back on. "Better safe than sorry," I announced to my team. "Plus I want
to enjoy my lunch, I don't want this causing an issue 45 minutes from
now."

We had planned a special reunion lunch that day with the original cloud
team - or *the cloudmigos* as we called ourselves. Rob, Alex, and I
walked over to DELUX, ordered some beer, and soon Huttleston joined us.
Famished from the long morning, I wolfed down my chicken sandwich in
about four bites, then helped myself to fries and fried pickles. Over a
round of Zombie Dust beers, we reminisced about a simpler time in
Zendesk's infrastructure when it was just the four of us at that table,
for the most part, winging everything. We had simple beginnings, but
almost four years later our jobs look much different now, and it's
amazing to reflect on all the different teams, processes, and new
technologies that have followed.

After lunch, we slowly made our way back to the office. I had some more
meetings, but the day started to wind down, concluding with our team's
end of the week retrospective. Fong presented some Foundation
Engineering t shirts she made. "I was afraid I was going to get in
trouble for using the logo," she said nervously, passing the shirts
around the room. "Ah, so they're knock-offs!" I teased. "You're totally
fine. We might sue you, but we probably won't - don't worry." And for a
knock-off Zendesk shirt, it's a good shirt. Having just gutted my closet
of old shirts, I was grateful to add another crisp, clean, white t shirt
to my wardrobe.

I made my way outside and jumped on a bus. Sighing, slumping down in my
seat, and shutting my eyes, I was grateful to be done with the work day,
but my lack of energy worried me. Kelly and Jeremy were on their way to
our house, and feeling burnt out from the long work day, I wasn't sure
how I would rally. As I entered the house, Marissa was cleaning, Rodney
was playing, and I got to making pizza. The moment I could smell the
minced garlic hit the hot olive oil, I felt the spark of a good mood. "I
think I just needed to make some pizza sauce," I announced to Marissa,
who was busily cleaning and putting things away around me. "Pizza sauce
always puts me in a good mood."

Kelly and Jeremy would arrive much later in the night, which gave me
plenty of time to assemble the pizzas with care. This was the first
double batch of sauce I'd make. It took much longer to simmer down to
the right consistency, and it took on a much more mysterious and dark
color - which worried me. I tasted the sauce on a spoon, and to my
relief, it was still sweet and light, like a caprese salad.

I baked the pizzas, then left them on the table to cool. Kelly and
Jeremy arrived, and a flurry of dogs, children, and joy filled the
house. After settling in, I coaxed the pizzas out of the cast iron pans
onto a cutting board. Marissa caught me fist pumping in the kitchen from
the corner of her eye. "Getting deep dish out of the pan is like my
white whale," I explained. I've tried many times, and the results have
always been disastrous.

We ate at the table, then after putting all the kids to bed, we cracked
open some beers and stood outside on the deck while the dogs played in
the snow. "I don't drink any beer until the kids are in bed," Jeremy
explained, rocking on his heels outside on the deck. "I'd much rather
relax when I no longer have a job to do."

"I'm the same way," I replied, nodding along. It's nothing against
Rodney or the kids, but beer just tastes better after they go to bed,
doesn't it?

We floated from the deck, to the kitchen, and to the living room,
sharing stories and talking about the week. "It's been an emotionally
charged week," Kelly explained as Jeremy nodded in agreement. Work
stress take many forms, and it's always illuminating hearing how it's
manifested for someone, whether they're directing a team, drilling
teeth, trying to shut off old servers, or working on a painting that's
larger than your studio.

By the sound of it, things are starting to wind down in the living room.
Paw Patrol is playing on the TV, and every now and then I'll here the
pattering and rapping of dog feet on the wood floor. Kelly and Jeremy
are fun guest, and if you've never had them, I'd highly recommend it.
"You guys aren't even company," I explained last night. The more they
spend time with you, the more energy they give back to you, it seems.

Well we've finally reached the long anticipated Water Slide Day. In a
few moments, we'll pack lunches, change into suits, and hit the road for
the great Wisconsin Dells. I can only imagine Rodney's excitement,
spending the last months thinking, watching videos, and dreaming about
water slides.

Hope you all have a wonderful day.

