---
title: bolt cutters, swinging a sledgehammer, and getting things done
banner: 2020-08-16.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  How is your Sunday going so far?  Marissa and
I pulled a late night last night, a fitting end for such a full and
productive day.  In fact we got so much done last night, I'm feeling
like I've earned the right to be a little lax with my morning duties
today, phoning it in with the abbreviated version of wiping up
Rodney's spot at the table, brewing a pot of coffee, and setting him
up on the couch with Blippi.

One of my Dutch practice phrases from Duolingo comes to mind: _Op
zoondagen, werk ik niet_.  Which of course means, "On Sundays I don't
work."  Never mind that we will still have some stuff to do around the
house before closing out the weekend - still true in spirit.

_Sip_.  So what did we get done yesterday?  Things kicked off in the
late morning by rearranging Rodney's play corner.  Rodney, who
insisted all day we refer to him as _Job-site Spider-Man_, helped me
move his easel up to his room and his desk down to the basement,
making more room for our k'nex roller coaster project that was slowly
taking over the living room.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/roller-coaster-progress-2020-08-16.jpg">
    <img alt="roller coaster progress 2020 08 16" src="/images/roller-coaster-progress-2020-08-16.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>"OK, *now* it is the longest it will get," said Alex,
only slightly lying to his patient wife.' </p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Feeling good from rearranging the play corner, we applied liberal
amounts of bug spray and headed out into the back yard where Rodney
and I took our family's new pair of bolt cutters out for a spin.  He
would follow me along the perimeter of the backyard fence with a small
box, collecting the trimmings of the long screws we added through the
slats.

This may come across as painfully obvious, but bolt cutters are very
good at cutting bolts.  I expected them to work, but I didn't expect
them to cut the thick protruding screws so easily.  The screws fell to
the ground with very little effort, like I was trimming flowers or
cutting off a metal pad of warm butter.

"How are they working?" asked Marissa from the porch.

"Too easy," I called back.  "So when we're done with the fence, we're
going to go steal some bikes next, right?"  Kidding, of course.

Next up was the barrier.  In our backyard, there is a random little
gap between the back of our garage and the Burger King fence.  When we
first moved in, this is where all the rats were living (if you haven't
heard that story, I'll happily retell that saga in a future journal
entry).  As a temporary measure to keep our dogs wandering behind
there, we had a plastic leaned up against our garage, pinned in place
with cinder blocks.

As a permanent replacement, Marissa ordered a much sturdier vinyl
fence segment.  After pounding a pair of aluminum poles in place, the
fence would slip on over the top.

Pounding the poles in place proved problematic.  I chipped Marissa's
rubber mallet.  I couldn't make good contact with a hammer.  I broke
three bricks in half and completely shattered a cinder block.
Luckily, our neighbors across the street were kind enough to lend us a
sledgehammer, which made two feet into the earth seem a lot less
daunting.

Marissa cautiously held the pole in place.  We elbowed Rodney out of
the way and sent the dogs inside.  Like a modern day John Henry, I
swung a sledge hammer for only the fourth or fifth time in my life.

After tapping the supports in place, fine tuning with a tiny magnetic
level, the fence was ready for assembly.  Marissa dropped the slates
in place and drilled everything together.

"Now really try to knock it down," I said.  Marissa lowered her
shoulder and gave the fence a final body check of approval.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/backyard-barrier-2020-08-16.jpg">
    <img alt="backyard barrier 2020 08 16" src="/images/backyard-barrier-2020-08-16.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Does this count as "having a house with a white picket fence"?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Later that day, Marissa would by herself add another notch to the
world's most productive Saturday, finishing the replacement of the
downstairs drain.  After cleaning up the overnight CLR soak, she
bolted a shiny new drain cover in place.

"Come over here," she said, waving me off the couch with a smile
plastered over her face.  She jumped out of the way.  "TADA!"

"Wow," I exclaimed.  "You could almost eat off of it."

"You know Rodney told me that the Ninja Turtles were waiting down
there for us," laughed Marissa.

"What?  Did he drop his toys down there?" I asked, concerned.

"No, he meant _the real ones_," she clarified.

"Oh I gotcha," I said.  "That's too bad.  Because now I never want to
open that drain cover ever again."

After putting Rodney to bed, I joined Marissa in the art studio with
my laptop.  I was finishing up coding a new professional website for
my good friend Dr. Ben Parks.  Getting a little carried away, I
devised an interesting way to dynamically format his list of
publications, reading from a simple flat file.

"Let me know if you have any more content changes," I wrote him.
"It's super easy, and to prove it, I took a video."

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CEF5TQMcnOc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The challenge kind of reminded me of the those exercises we had to do
in high school English class where you have to correctly format a
citation for a bibliography - only with a nerdy computer twist.  Can
you tell that I miss working on the computer?

We had a great day yesterday.  Today I just feel like wandering around
the house and enjoying everything that we got done.  Maybe I'll stand
outside and drink my coffee by our new fence panel.  Or perhaps I can
just chill out on the floor by our new shiny basement drain cover.
The possibilities our endless.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
