---
title: coffee messes, skateboarding, and Dr. Ben Parks
banner: 2020-06-18.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  If this week has you feeling
gassed, and you're having a hard time staying on top of things today,
hopefully it helps knowing that we're in the same boat together.  This
morning, I slept right through my morning alarm and woke up in the
limbo right before Rodney is allowed out of his room.

"I don't understand how this happens," I said to Marissa as she poured
me a cup of coffee.  "My new phone's alarm is like a thousand
decibels.  Every morning I sit up in a panic to shut it off."

"Maybe you've been home for so long that we're starting to
synchronize," replied Marissa sleepily.  "You're turning into a
_rissa_."

And to further complicate the morning, it took three tries to brew our
second pot of coffee today.  Yesterday, I was feeling just too clever
and had the brilliant idea of brewing our coffee by weight instead of
by volume.  After perusing some hipster coffee blogs, I found a weight
ratio that they all seemed to agree on, marking the amount with a
beautiful thin sharpie ring around the inside of our coffee grinder.
But while 75 grams may be an ideal mass of coffee, it was just
slightly too much for our drip brewer, and gritty warm coffee spilled
down the sides and ran all over our coffee bar.

"Must have just been a fluke," I thought.  "I'll do the exact same
thing."

And so after cleaning up the same coffee mess twice, I've abandoned
the coffee-by-weight experiment.  I'll go back to eye-balling it.
Looking on the bright side of things, now I've figured out the exact
amount of beans to cause our coffee brewer to overflow, and marked the
amount with a beautiful thin sharpie ring around the inside of our
coffee grinder.

_Sip_.  So how are we feeling today?  Rodney and I are taking it easy
today.  Ziggy is fast asleep in his lap, and Rodney is using her
wrinkled, limp head as a motorcycle ramp for Canada Man.  And as
always, Blippi's shrill, patronizing voice echoes throughout the
house.

Rodney and I certainly earned this low key morning.  Yesterday, the
two of us kicked off Wednesday by rolling over to the Goodman
skatepark - although I was the one that did all the rolling.  For
being so into skateboarding, Rodney is reluctant to ride his board
anytime he doesn't have to.  Together, the two of us walked to the
park with helmets and boards in hand, the hot summer sun already
drawing beads of sweat down our backs.

We had the whole skatepark to ourselves.  Rodney kicked his board
aside, and instead of riding around, he got way more excited about
just taking pictures of me with my phone and fiddling with things that
were left around the park.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/skatepark-grafiti.jpg">
    <img alt="skatepark grafiti" src="/images/skatepark-grafiti.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I
given up trying to stop him from picking up garbage.  I consider it a
victory if he just doesn't put things in his mouth.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney also acted as a trick caller.  Using my board, he'd act out an
elaborate flip-trick and grind combination for me to try.  After a
decade of on-and-off skateboarding, I can still barely get my wheels
off the ground, but I gave it the college try anyway.

"Nice try, Dada," he yelled from across the park.  "Try again."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/skateboarding.jpg">
    <img alt="skateboarding" src="/images/skateboarding.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>If not ollying is cool, I'm freakin' Miles Davis.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After our great skate park adventure, lunch and quiet time followed.
I took a long, glorious afternoon nap before emerging from our bedroom
and heading into the kitchen to start on dinner.  And for dinner, I
hit two birds with one stone, cleaning out most of the leftover
ingredients in our fridge to make a very eclectic rice pilaf.  It had
little triangular cuts of sausage, carrot, celery, shallot, leek, and
parsnip.  I also plucked a leaf from our rallying lemon tree to make a
summery _bouquet garnis_.

I transitioned from dinner into giving the kitchen a thorough
cleaning.  I also started a new loaf of bread, and turned a few stale
cuts into bread crumbs.  I found it interesting that the Krang bread I
made earlier this week and the beer bread I made only a day ago turned
stale at the same time.  If anything, the much older loaf of sourdough
was actually softer.  I read somewhere that the fermentation process
of sourdough is more natural, and produces a much more shelf stable
product.  As a result, sourdough lasts much longer.

And while I cleaned the kitchen, I listened to my friend Ben's
recorded PhD defense.  I'm not going to lie to you - it was pretty
heady stuff.  And I have a feeling that years of listening to inane
podcast banter, sitcoms, and Blippi videos has left me academically
rusty, but I still found some takeaways.

I'm probably going to butcher this, but from what I can tell, his
thesis was around exploring the relationship between myth, magic, and
technology and how it relates to Christianity and bioethics.  He also
somehow tied it into a thorough analysis of the book _Frankenstein_.

The Q&A portion was also very interesting.  As the roundtable of
professors pitched him heady questions, I had a lot of fun imagining
that I was in the hot seat - which just added to how impressed I felt
watching Ben field them with poise, decorum, and ease.

One tidbit I liked - Ben mentioned that in the ancient world, the
concept of human dignity and the sanctity of life practically didn't
exist.  This was a novel, totally revolutionary idea brought about by
Christianity.  But ironically, even though Christianity pioneered the
concept of human dignity, Ben noted that Christians have done a pretty
bang-up job implementing it throughout history.

And so congratulations to Dr. Ben Parks.  Watching him in his element
in dense scholarly discussion, I felt lucky to call him my friend.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Thursday.
