---
title: the 2020 awards
banner: 2020-12-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy new year, everyone.  Twenty-twenty was a wild ride, wasn't it?
In fact, I decided to dedicate this journal entry to handing out my
very own made-up 2020 awards to all people and characters that made
this year memorable for me.  This was kind of a last minute idea -
I've only been scrolling through 2020's journal entries for about an
hour, and I need to start writing.  No offense, but when midnight
rolls around I'd rather be having champagne outside by the fire
instead of at my computer writing.  So without further ado, let's hand
out some accolades.

## Biggest Chumps

The biggest chumps of the year - the people that made a terrible 2020
even worse.  Buckle up.

- To the drag racers on East Wash.  These toolbags cruising East
  Washington in their crappy modded Honda Civics showed dedication
  that you can't help but admire.  It didn't matter if it was a
  weeknight, if it was dinner time, if the city was burning with riots
  or if a pandemic was rife in our community.  These knuckleheads were
  there through it all, revving their engines as they flew by our
  dining room window.
- To the oven repair guy we hired earlier this year.  Dealing with the
  stress of grocery shortages and a new baby in the house, I can't
  express to you how uplifting it was to pay you a hundred dollars
  just to lecture me about how I stripped the screws around the
  igniter and how I had too many pans stacked in my warming drawer.
  You didn't fix anything, you didn't schedule a follow up
  appointment, and my wife had to watch a YouTube video to install the
  new ignitor you had mailed to our house without warning, but without
  your biting commentary on how dirty my stove top was, I don't know
  how I would have gotten on with this year.
- To Blippi.  You were silent for most of the year.  You kept us
  guessing, and for a time I thought you were cooking up something
  very informative and encouraging for all the kids stuck in their
  homes this year.  But you surpassed my expectations when you broke
  your YouTube silence just to publish a video where you showed kids
  how to operate dangerous power tools in your buddy's garage.  Thanks
  for the important lessons, Blippi.
- To Marissa.  You are the love of my life.  You astound me with your
  beauty, skill, and grace on a daily basis.  You are a wonderful
  mother and a brave companion.  But you operate our coffee maker like
  an ape.  I still occasionally wake up in a cold sweat thinking of
  the gruesome scene you left in our dining room that one morning you
  decided to brew coffee, and for that, you are one of the chumps
  of 2020.  Please never make coffee for me again.
- To John Krasinski.  Remember when you decided to launch an adorable
  web show to make us feel better during quarantine only to take it
  off the air while you sold _Some Good News_ to a TV network?  And
  now we find out that you're not even going to be the host?  _Jim
  Face_ - you're a chump!
- To that weenie on ebay who scolded me over direct message for not
  including a picture of the item I was selling.  You were right - I
  listed it again a second time, and it sold immediately, but what
  kind of person just cruises around ebay looking for poorly
  documented listings to shame?  A chump, that's who.
- To Hy-Vee's software engineering department.  Your website is so
  cruel and poorly designed, it makes me wonder if it was done on
  purpose.  The way it logs you out automatically every five minutes.
  The way the dropdown menus stutter so you click the wrong item.  The
  way the search is so unbearably slow that my browser assumes the
  page isn't responding.  Not only will I never use a website to order
  groceries again, but I'm contemplating never touching a computer
  again after quarantine..

## Brave (or Stupid)

The bravest people I came across in 2020.  So Brave, you have to
question whether or not it's just stupidity.

- That nerd who knocked on my door during dinner time to canvass for
  PBS.  I don't feel bad calling you a nerd because you immediately
  started berating me for claiming to like Mr. Rodgers without
  financially supporting his broadcasting station.  I tried to
  intimidate you, then brush you off saying that I would "donate over
  the phone later", and you accused me of lying.  I _was_ lying, and
  for that you get the bravery award.
- Nurse Kenzie of Meriter hospital.  You were the nurse who told
  Marissa that because of an obscure requirement for iron levels that
  Marissa would not receive an epidural during childbirth.  For her
  professionalism and for remaining in the room without knowing what
  damage Marissa is capable of, you get the bravery award, Kenzie.
- Our saltwater shrimp.  All three of them.  There was Stephane I,
  Stephane II, and Bruno.  They say you can't make an omelette without
  breaking a few eggs, and that could be true of new hobbies and
  cleaner shrimp as well.
- The medical assistant that checked me into an exam room when I
  nearly sliced my finger off a few days ago.  As I sat bewildered
  clutching a wet mess of bloody paper towels in my lap, he asked me
  to step on the scale, and even commented on how far off my actual
  weight was from my medical chart.  "Makes sense... holidays..." he
  said to himself.  Brave, I'll give him that.  Maybe if I hadn't lost
  so much blood already, those would have been fighting words.

## Lucky SOBs

To the lucky ones.

- Zoom.  Not Skype, not Google Hangouts.  It had to be a company that
  practically nobody had ever heard of.  Have you ever stopped to
  appreciate even how terrible there name is?  _Zoom_ sounds like a
  placeholder word.  And if not for a global pandemic, they would
  still be just a terrible name.
- Our friends from Dublin, Rafael and Miguel.  Looking back at my
  entries, they managed to squeeze in a visit to America in March just
  before things got real.  They drank wine with us, tried deep dish
  pizza for the first time, and got out a-dodge before COVID was even
  a household name.  For that, you two are probably 2020's luckiest
  SOB's.
- To Paw Patrol.  Rodney was done with you.  You were on the way out.
  There was a glorious three months where Rodney had moved on to
  better and more exciting shows.  But a well placed add on Nick Jr's
  website pulled us right back in.  You've respun the whole Paw Patrol
  universe all over again with "mighty pups" and for all I know we
  have a whole new Paw Patrol desert to cross.
- To anyone who didn't get to see Hamilton live.  I count us lucky.
  Of all the things we missed this year, at least we didn't have to
  pay $300 to learn that _Hamilton_ was just OK.

## Most Improved

Still bad, but not as bad.

- To Baby Miles.  You had a rough start.  I feel like we had to pick
  up a lot of slack for you in your first few months on earth.  It
  didn't seem like you were a fan of sleeping, sitting, or just
  generally existing.  But you really turned things around this fall
  and now I barely even notice you.  Speaking of which, where is
  Miles?
- To Rodney, specifically for you great poop work this year.  I spent
  so much time this year trying to convince you that your poop wasn't
  angry at your or your poop didn't belong in your feet that I thought
  there was no hope.
- To the Chicago Bears, going from being an unstoppable 5-1
  juggernaut, to a hopeless six game losing streak, to turning it
  around just in time to give me feeble hope for the playoffs.
  Someone on twitter said "only the Chicago Bears could experience
  three completely different football seasons in one year", and I'll
  leave it at that.
- To Krang, my sourdough starter.  I'm sorry for the months I left you
  malnourished in the drafty corner of our house.  I really didn't
  know what I was doing, but my goodness did you stick with me.  It's
  amazing what living organisms can do when you, you know, feed them
  and care for them correctly.

## MVP

MVPs.  My heros.  The people that made this year a little less crummy.

- To Portillo's.  My rock.  My saving grace.  You shone your heavenly
  light on the dark wasteland that is East Madison fast food, and for
  that I am eternally grateful.
- To the coffee shop on Willie Street.  I'm sorry that I got
  distracted and accidentally left Ziggy's steamy bagged hot dog poop
  on your window sill.  Thank you for not pursuing me down the street.
- To the Madison quarry.  Thank you for your stewardship over the big
  hole in the ground and letting us chuck our dirt and bricks into it.
  I don't know how I could have gotten through quarantine without that
  occasional cathartic release.
- To Chef John, and all the other YouTube chefs I follow.  Thanks for
  coming alongside focus-challenged millenials like me and showing us
  the things we should have already learned from books and from our
  grandmother's.
- To Joe Exotic.  And while we're at it, wild documentaries like _My
  Octopus Teacher_ and _The Last Dance_.  I may have never gotten to
  leave my house this year, but there were a few documentaries that at
  least mentally transported me somewhere else for a while.
- Lastly, my friends, my family, and my readers.  This one is
  sincere - thank you for spending this year with me in words.

Here's to our last day of 2020.  Happy new year, my friends.  See you
next year.
