---
title: social security, making letters, and dirty sauce
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  How are you doing on this _woensdag_ morning?
Does today's banner image alarm you?  Ziggy is sitting in my lap while
I'm rubbing behind her ears, and according to her, having her face
skin pulled tight just makes the whole thing feel a lot cozier.  I
understand seeing her big white eyes bulge out of her head between can
be jarring, but this is a pretty common scene in our house.

This picture was taken yesterday when we were on speaking terms.  This
morning, our relationship has hit some rough waters.  Ollie is getting
put under this morning for a teeth cleaning, and I was instructed to
withhold their morning breakfast - _both_ dogs, out of solidarity.  It
was heart breaking, but if I admit also pretty amusing watching Ollie
and Ziggy pass through the stages of grief in the few minutes it took
me to finish brewing coffee, using only their forlorn side glances to
protest.

How do you communicate that to a pet?  How do you assure them that
this morning is just a special circumstance?  Perhaps Ziggy thought
that this was the new normal, and this convenient arrangement of cozy
face skin pulling and free food was about to change course.  I'm sure
she silently resolved to herself _I guess I'll have to kill something
later - a squirrel, a bird, or even that succulent ping-pong ball that
rolled under the couch last night_.

How are you feeling today?  Just the short walk across the
driveway convinced me to spend all day inside.  Between the rain, the
cool wet air, and the mellow overcast skies, today is just
disgustingly cozy.

I started looking at the ten day forecast when planning meals.  Seeing
a long stretch of rainy fall weather, I had the foresight to pick
roasted squash soup for tonight.  I think that was a good move.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  The long holiday weekend gave me
the charge I needed to have a relentlessly productive morning.  I
caught up on work email, reviewed some code, and with some spare time
in between, I even got around to shoring up some of my legal
documents.  I added the card "order a replacement social security
card" to this week's project board, thinking it was going to be bogged
down with a long and tedious process.  But I forgot that the department of
social security switched to paperless a few years ago, and the bare
bones, no frills website is just my speed.

While digging my login info out of my password manager, I gave myself
a laugh.  It turns out that the username in which you sign into the
website does _not_ have to be your legal name.  I ran with this
privilege, and chose the username _RICHARD STALLMAN_.  God willing, I
hope I live long enough to be the old man waiting in a long line of
people shouting "RICHARD STALLMAN!" at the confused government worker
about forty years from now.

While working, I felt a sharp poke from a tiny index finger.  I
removed my headphones to find Rodney standing beside my desk holding a
piece of paper behind my back.

"Dada...." he said quietly, trying to build anticipation.  "Guess what
I have."

"Show me," I said smiling.  Rodney revealed two sheets of paper on
which he precisely penned the letter _A_.

"This one is _uppercase_, and this one is _lowercase_," he explained.

Marissa started teaching Rodney his letters yesterday on his first
official day of _unofficial occasional schoolish work at home_.
Rodney would later show me more practice runs of his very first
letter.

"Ah, is he still starting the _A_'s from the bottom?" asked Marissa.
"It said in the lesson plan that they need to start from the top."

"Really?" I asked.  I drew my own _A_ in the air with a finger tip.
"I think I start from the bottom too."

Suddenly I felt regret for giving Marissa so much crap the other night
about how she writes her letters.

"Are you really supposed to do a lowercase _a_ like this?" she asked,
showing me her phone.  "I just draw a ovalish circle, then a line.
This way seems dumb to me."

"No offense," I laughed haughtily, "but you also write your _8_'s
wrongly.  We should stick to the book here."

"What's wrong with how I make my _8_'s?" she retorted.

"You are one of those _two circles_ people," I snapped back.  "It's
supposed to be a continuous figure 8.  If you make your eights that
way, they just look weird when you write fast and you forget to make
them touch."

The next day, I had to eat my words, and my passing judgment for how
my wife makes her letters.  Who am I to scorn the people who draw
_8_'s with two circles?  I start my capital _A_'s from the bottom
line.  How truly revolting.

I don't want to grow up to be someone who compulsively grieves new
ways of doing things, but It didn't take much for me to but up against
my judgmental impulses.  We're not even close to dealing with long
division, counting money, and English grammar.  The conflict between
how I was taught and how my son will probably be taught is already
starting on the letter _A_.

After my work day, I escorted Rodney to the table for another
unofficial lesson.

"No dada," he protested.  "I already did school with _Momma_."

"You do two schools," I said.  "Momma does letters with you, and on
Tuesdays we're going to do science stuff.  Do you know what _science_
is?"

Rodney put his hand to his chin, pondering the question.  For a
second, I thought he was going to return from the recesses of his
silly little brain with a nugget of wisdom.

"It's kinda like... _dirty sauce_."

"Dirty sauce? - no, science is when you look at how things act and try
to figure out how they work."  I set a pitcher of water on the table
next to a cup of sugar.  "Check this out, dude - what's going to
happen when I dump the sugar in?"

"It's gonna..." his voice trailed off in thought.  "Make _dirty
sauce_."

I don't know what _dirty sauce_ means, and I was afraid to ask.
Together at the table, we fiddled with salt, sugar, cocoa powder, and
other kitchen reagents until I felt Rodney appreciated the concept of
dissolving things - as much as a four year old could.

"OK, let's review," I began.  "What did we do here?"

"We made DIRTY SAUCE," replied Rodney.  I wiped my face with my hands
and laughed.

"We can skip the review.  Did you have fun?"

Rodney nodded and smiled.  I guess that was the goal all along.

Thanks for stopping by today - have a great day, everyone.
