---
title: my seinfeld mug, snipping at rodney, and cleaning the garage
banner: 2020-09-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy football Sunday.  This morning, our
plans for brunch with family were cancelled, and all of the sudden or
active and social Sunday just became another day of hanging around and
watching football.  But such is COVID.  Erring on the side of caution,
all plans are tentative, at the mercy of a stuffy nose or a slight
fever.

After cleaning up a potty disaster in Rodney's room, Marissa crashed
on the couch for a well-earned nap with the dogs.  Rodney is slinging
arrows around the house while Blippi plays on the TV in the
background.  And I'm at the dining room computer writing.

_Sip_.  It's been a relaxing weekend.  I'm on call through Monday
morning, so my phone has been at full volume within arm's reach all
weekend.  No pages yet, but vigilance is paramount.

On Friday, after work we took a long walk to the Biergarten.
Amazingly we found a way to pack our three folding chairs, a picnic
blanket, Rodney's toys, my laptop, as well as everything we need to
keep a five month old baby happy - all without bogging down the
enjoyable outdoor walk.  The folding chairs slung beautifully over the
handles of the stroller, almost as if they were designed to do that.
And Rodney was happy to hide under the blanket in his plastic wagon.

We had drinks and took in the lovely fall weather with Alex and
Cassie.  Doing me a huge favor, Alex had grabbed the few remaining
items off my desk back at the office while he was picking up his
things.  I knew that I had my other mechanical keyboard there, but he
also managed to grab my Seinfeld mug.

My Seinfeld mug!  The very same one I've had since Freshmen year of
college.  The mug that has followed me through three different jobs
and close to a dozen living situations.  You can go ahead and at
"pandemic" and "downtown riots" to the growing list of what this
silly, unconquerable coffee mug has survived.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-27/mug.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 27 mug" src="/images/2020-09-27/mug.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The
things this mug has seen...</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Yesterday was mostly a quiet writing day.  While Marissa and Ziggy got
some agility practice in on the west side of town, I hung around the
house with the boys to prepare my big Saturday journal entry.

Yesterday's story was one of those essays that took on a life of its
own.  Even though I had a clear idea of the tone, length, and overall
thesis, sometimes the story I'm telling just takes over and guides me
somewhere unexpected.  I honestly thought yesterday's account would be
a much easier, light-hearted read.  But thanks to the crucible of the
writing process, I discovered some hidden angst and suppressed anger.

"This guy sounded like such a jerk!" said Marissa, half way through
the story.

"Yeah, I guess we was," I said, rubbing the back of my neck.  "It's
weird, I don't think I realized how mad I was about the whole thing."

My hellish driver's ed experience wasn't the only time I used humor to
paint over something painful in my life.  The scary part about getting
older is how time corrodes away at this veneer of disingenuous humor,
and some of the funny stories in my childhood turn to sad ones.  I
sometimes wonder how much I have yet to discover.

On top of everything, it was a difficult story to get out.  My sense
of balance between focusing on writing and spending time with the
family was sort of thrown off, and as the afternoon started to
encroach on dinner, I started to get snippy.  From across the hallway,
Rodney started to talk to me, asking "Dada?  Need anything?" as he
usually does.  Normally I humor him and just reply "No, I'm good dude.
Do you need anything?"  But yesterday, immersed in focus, I
regrettably shot him an angry glare and snapped my door shut.

I overheard him talking to Marissa downstairs.  "Moma, dada is mad at
me," he said.

"No - he's not mad at you.  He's just writing," she said.

"_No_,' said Rodney, his eyes widening.  "He _really is_ mad at me."

I felt pretty crummy about it.  "Sorry dude," I said kneeling down to
meet him at eye level.  "I shouldn't have snipped.  Daddy is still
figuring out how to write on Saturdays without being so grumpy."

Don't worry, everyone.  We're cool now.  We bumped fists, then went
for a walk around the block, taking our absentee ballots with us.  As
part of Madison's "democracy in the park" event, the city is setting
up ballot boxes and election officials all over Madison.  One of these
voting stations was in the small park across from our favorite liquor
store.

"They packed up about a half hour ago," a neighbor told us.  Just
narrowly missed the window, but at least Rodney got a good bike ride,
and we have next weekend as well.

After setting up Rodney with some quiet time, Marissa and I made our
way back outside to clean the garage.  Before we started, she showed
me her phone, grinning.  It was a notification from Google Photos with
one of those "this week last year" albums, and wouldn't you know it?
We were _also_ cleaning our garage then too.

"We're creatures of habit," laughed Marissa.  "Somehow we picked the
exact same weekend to clean our garage."

I remember last year, it took us an entire day.  Since we keep our
garage in pretty good shape these days, it only took Marissa and I a
little under an hour this time.  We swept up, threw away some garbage,
and consolidated our growing pile of spare rocks and pavers that we
need to take to the quarry.

"I feel dumb for asking this," said Marissa, "but... we can dump
_rocks_ in the quarry, right?"

"We've been over this before," I teased.  "It's a _quarry_.  How the
hell would we know what goes in a quarry and what doesn't?  It never
hurts to ask."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-27/garage.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 27 garage" src="/images/2020-09-27/garage.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Still
dilapidated, but at least it's clean.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Now if you'll excuse me, I have some
brunch to cook, and a Bears game to watch.  Have a wonderful Sunday,
everyone.
