---
title: skate, javascript, toothpaste dessert, and chardonnay
banner: 2020-06-20.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, everyone!  I had a slow start this morning.  When you
wake up at the same time as Rodney, there is little hope for getting
anything done until he is changed, dressed, fed, and contently hanging
out on the living room couch.  And as long as I was winding up for the
day with him, I also decided to start a load of wash, take a shower,
and cook a mean Saturday morning breakfast featuring some bacon,
peaches, and some French toast-ified homemade sourdough bread.
_Lekker_.

With breakfast out of the way and a steaming cup of coffee sitting in
front of my keyboard, it's time to write.  Let me first kick things
off my giving EA props for announcing that they are resurrecting the
original _Skate_ video game series.

And just in case I didn't find this news on my own, five other people
I went to college with all independently notified me of this exciting
news.  Anyone who went to college with me would testify that I've sunk
a lot of time into this game, and we had a lot of good memories
huddled in my dorm room watching me command a shaggy looking
skateboarding avatar of myself down half pipes, canyons, and over the
side of buildings.  This is exciting news.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/skate-email.png">
    <img alt="skate email" src="/images/skate-email.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I get all my video game news from this service called "Chi
Won Ahn" - ever hear of it?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"So does that mean you'll be spending a lot more time in the studio
with me?" laughed Marissa.

The answer is 'yes', so long as I can hold my breath long enough to
plunk down _X_ hundred dollars one whatever 2020 gaming console this
title will be exclusive to.  I'm not a fan of buying a new gaming
console just to play one game, but as the saying goes, *skate or die*.

_Sip_.  So what are you working on this weekend?  I spent most of
yesterday writing code.  You see, I'm in a race against the weekly
project board to finish an ambition rewrite of our virtual chore
wheel.

"I thought I was just about to wrap up, but I found a pretty gross
bug," I told Marissa.  "I found that when you change the name of a
chore, it changes the name for all of them."

"Oh, that's not good," Marissa laughed.

"I don't know how I worked on this all day without noticing I had ten
copies of 'Clean the microwave'.  But it's kind of exciting," I
continued.  "I don't mind a good bug to chew on."

And I squashed said bug this morning while waiting for Rodney to
change out of his pajamas.  How's that for multitasking?  The new site
is coming along great.  Although, I'm a little rusty with JavaScript.
Regrettably I still write JavaScript like it's 2014.  And even though
that was only six years ago, six years is probably about fifty years
in the frontend web development fad timeline.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/chores-preview.png">
    <img alt="chores preview" src="/images/chores-preview.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Might look pretty in the front, but like a mullet, it's a
wild, unkempt party in the back.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

As I wrapped up my coding binge, Rodney and Marissa returned from
running errands, and I shifted focus to tidying up the kitchen and
starting on dinner.  With Rodney's help, we whipped up a Sfincione
pizza in record time, and we even had some time to put together a
new dessert.

I stumbled upon this new dessert recipe while looking for a way to use
leftover sourdough bread.  The random blog I found called the creation
"Sweet Strawberry Crostini" - just some toasted sourdough bread
smeared with mascarpone cheese and diced mint and topped with a few
scoops of lightly sugared diced strawberries.

"I have a problem," I said to Marissa in a mock-anxious tone.  "This
desert won't fit on the tray.  I have an extra and I don't know what
to do with it."

Marissa laughed, and after carefully placing Charles Mingus in his
crib, she took a bite.

"Oh," she said, looking surprised.  "It's _refreshing_."

"Here - let me try a bite," I said, reaching for the wedge."  We stood
for a moment in silence, chewing and thinking.

"Are you sure it doesn't just taste like toothpaste and strawberries?"
I laughed.  Marissa's face changed, like the thought was causing her
to retch.

"Well now that you said _toothpaste_, I don't think I can enjoy these
anymore," she laughed.

"I knew there was something wrong when you described them as
_refreshing_," I replied.  "I don't think that's a good dessert word.
That's a toothpaste word."

"You have a whole tray of those?" laughed Marissa.  "What are we going
to do with a whole tray of toothpaste dessert?"

"Eh, we'll just pick all the strawberries off," I said, licking my
fingers clean.  "This was a risky choice - just a random, untrusted
dessert recipe off the Internet - no sweat."

After finishing dinner and putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I
knocked out some new video edits, then headed downstairs to crack open
a bottle of wine.  We ordered a new bottle of Chardonnay from the
Internet, and having a whole snack, wine, and movie pairing planned,
we were excited to wrap up Friday with some mild and fancy debauchery.

"Let's read a little about this wine first," I said, squinting at the
label and punching the winery into google.  "Lemon and citrus
notes... Spanish American war... pH... color density... wow, we might
be in over our head here."

"Let's just drink it," laughed Marissa.  She buried her nose into her
glass, took a deep whiff and looked up with a silly smile.  "_This is
a white_."

We polished off the bottle of Chardonnay with a bowl of popcorn,
chasing it down with some licorice, getting as much through the movie
_Sideways_ as we could before we were nodding off on the couch.  It
was a good day.

Hope you also had a fun Friday night.  And I hope you have a great
Saturday too.  Thanks for stopping by today.
