---
title: my stupid finger
banner: 2020-12-26.jpg
---

_Trigger warning: blood & stitches_

Dear Journal,

Good evening, readers.  Speaking for myself, the magic of Christmas is
starting to wear off.  Our tree, after being cruelly thrown out into
the cold, waits patiently on the curb for its destruction.  Marissa is
busily packing away lights and wreaths.  More and more, this is just
starting to feel like a regular Saturday.  That's not a bad thing at
all.  I think there's something kind of calming about closing the
final holiday chapter of the year.  We've got a fresh start ahead of
us, time off to recharge, and a bunch of sweet new toys to get us
through the bleak tail end of quarantine winter.

_Sip_.  How was your Saturday?  I had a very exciting day.  There's a
story behind this thick white bandage over my index finger that's
causing me to fumble over these words while I typed them.  I call it
"my stupid finger", and it all started when I got up off the couch to
make lunch.

"So we've got some 'choni," I thought aloud over the sound of the Paw
Patrol music leaking out of the TV.  "But not enough for all of us,
Rod will need something."

Marissa was asleep in a pile of blankets, and Ziggy was somewhere in
there too.  Only Rodney was conscious and ready to weigh in on our
lunch plans.

"Do we have mac and cheese?" asked Rod.

"I don't think so," I said.  "I can add some more to the Hy-vee order,
but..."  I stood and pondered for a moment.  "I'll go take a look at
what we have."

After lazily wandering into the kitchen staring at the pantry for a
few minutes, I decided we had enough supplies to whip up some homemade
mac and cheese from milk, penne noodles, and a block of cheddar
cheese.  I dumped some milk into the dutch oven, making a scraping
sound as I pulled the heavy pan into position over the stove.  I
clicked on the flame.  While waiting for the milk to come to a simmer,
I decided to chip away at the mound of dishes.

The faucet hissed with hot water.  Plates, silverware, and bowls
clattered as I rinsed each clean and moved each utensil to the
dishwasher.  Just my big chef's knife remained, set aside on the
counter.  I held it under the faucet, staring at a piece of dried
pizza cheese stuck to the blade.  The fleck of cheese wouldn't budge.

Frustrated, I grabbed the hand brush.  Holding it under the water, I
swiped at the knife blade.  That was when my hand slipped, and I felt
the hot, clean slice through my right index finger.  The pale skin
flaps fell slack, opened like a de-boned chicken.  It quickly began to
swell with deep red blood.  I dashed over to the opposite counter,
hastily wadding up a roll of paper towel.

Meanwhile, to paraphrase _A Christmas Story_ which is still fresh in
my memory, I wove a tapestry of obscenities so vile that it is
probably still hanging in space over lake Michigan now.  It was loud
enough to make Marissa shoot wide awake from her nap on the couch.
She carefully peeled away the paper towel.  After taking a squeamish
gulp, she called Rodney into the kitchen to get his shoes on.

"What's a matter?" said Rodney.

"Nothing, honey," said Marissa.  "We're just going on a little car
trip to take dada to the doctor."  We very calmly packed the boys in
the car and drove across the street to the urgent care clinic.  I
greeted the receptionist, fumbled over the credit card reader, then
took a seat in the waiting room.  While waiting to be called, I
finally had a chance to slow my breath and come out of shock, and
suddenly my greatest concern was that I wasn't hurt enough to warrant
a midday trip to the urgent care.  I pictured the doctor pulling away
my wet paper towel and saying _I don't think you'll need stitches,
it's not so bad_.  Can you imagine the shame?

I was ushered into an exam room where an assistant poured out a bowl
of reddish liquid.  He carefully took of my wrapping and had me dunk
my hand into the bowl.  He left, and for the first time I got a calm,
close-up look at the cut.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-26-cut.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 26 cut" src="/images/2020-12-26-cut.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Deep.  Bloody.  Scary.  As I was admiring my own handy work, the soft
spoken Dr. Elias slipped into the room.  "Must have been a very sharp
knife," he said, cradling my hand.  "It's a clean cut, and very deep."

For some reason, I took his observation as a compliment.  "I keep my
knives very sharp," I bragged.  "I use a whetstone and everything.  Do
you think I'll need stitches?"

"Definitely," he muttered, pacing toward the back wall.  He began to
tear open plastic, laying out his supplies on the table.  He rolled
his eyes.  "We are short staffed, so I have to do all of this myself,"
he mumbled.

"So I've never had stitches before," I said, trying to kindle more
small talk out of the silence.  "First time."

Dr. Elias's cheek wrinkled behind his mask in a forced smile.  "So
we'll have to make it a good experience for you then."  And with that,
he jabbed a needle into the wound.  I felt a hot burning sensation,
but I put on my tough guy face.  My finger grew numb and tingly.

"You should _not_ feel this," said the doctor, jabbing my finger three
more times.  "Just pressure."

After laying out more gauze, the doctor proceeded to thread the
sutures through the flaps of skin.  My eyes were locked onto the
gruesome display.  I was fascinated.

"This cut is much deeper than I thought," he said.  "I will have to
make vertical sutures.  That's when I mend the tissue deep, then
shallow, and so on."

Mesmerized, I watched the doctor pinch my skin, then wind the black
thread around his forceps.  He moved swiftly, like he was a skilled
tailor weaving together a bloody, meaty fabric.

"Do you feel pain?" he asked.  Behind my mask, I winced and held my
breath.  As he worked outward from the local anesthetic, I gradually
felt the pinching and tearing sensations again.  "Yeah, I think I can
get through this one, but I'm feeling it," I yelped.

"I have good news, Mr. Recker," he said bleakly.  "That was the last
suture.  1-2-3-4-5 in total.  The nurse will clean you up."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-26-stitches.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 26 stitches" src="/images/2020-12-26-stitches.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>


The doctor slipped out of the room, and minutes later a nurse and an
assistant took his place.  The assistant craned her neck over me to
see my bloody finger.  "Oooh," she laughed.  "You guys had fun in here
didn't you?"

They stood around the mess of blood, gauze, and utensils like they
were unsure what to do next.  "The doctor just said _clean him up_,"
griped the assistant.  "He made it sound like it would be easy.  Look
at all this!"

After getting bandaged up, I staggered home.  Marissa had a beer and a
BLT from Jimmy John's waiting on the table.  After I inhaled my
sandwich, I regaled her and Rodney with tales of what I call my
_stupid finger_.

"Twelve days to heal," I sighed.  "I guess it's good I took a week off
from work.  Typing would have been a pain in the butt."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Be careful with knives, and have a
great rest of your Saturday.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-26-stupid-finger.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 26 stupid finger" src="/images/2020-12-26-stupid-finger.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>
