---
title: work, shyness, and our basement pot farm
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Thanks for stopping by. Hope you have plenty of
coffee to drink on this chilly Wednesday morning.

Despite all my hemming and hawing yesterday about how this was the
perfect ultra regular week, I think that may have been wishful thinking
on my part. As much as I'd like to have the perfect ultra regular week
to counteract last week, this week's summit is a bit of a shake-up. With
several teams represented in a large conference room, visiting from San
Francisco, Ireland, and Australia, weeks like this remind me of how shy
I really am. While trying to follow along with the discussion, my head
was racing trying to remember everyone's names and roles at the company.
To add to the pressure, many of these people have been with the company
for as long as I have, and we've even worked together remotely in slack
conversations and remote meetings. And there's nothing more embarrassing
than introducing yourself to someone who already knows you, and whom you
already met with a webcam.

The discussion is good - there's no replacement for being in the same
room, and we're figuring out a lot of things this week. But the inner
introvert in me cries out for space, quiet, and routine.

I had a quiet morning at my desk. Most of my team is either out this
week or tied up in work for the Summit. So I had a quiet morning to
listen to music, catch up on communications, and take care of some house
keeping. I also spent some time reviewing slides for a presentation.
This week, as part of my new duties on the engineering onboarding squad
in Madison, I'll be taking a group of new-hires through a complete tour
of the Zendesk technical stack. The content is already prepared for me,
which is both a blessing and a curse. Of course I didn't need to do the
research and legwork ahead of time, but I still need to memorize the
material and be ready to speak along slides that I didn't create. It's a
new kind of challenge.

For lunch, I stole away to Starbucks and enjoyed a bacon panini and bag
of barbecue chips in a corner table. The Starbucks on the square
continues to come through as a refuge of isolation, and yesterday I
needed some time to think and unwind away from the crowded office
teeming with visitors. Maybe the sound of the clunky espresso machine
and hissing steam wand behind the bar takes me back to my first job in
high school when life was a whole lot simpler. Maybe I just enjoy the
fact that most people aren't aware that Starbucks serves lunch food, and
there's virtually no chance of bumping into somebody from work and
getting caught off guard. Whatever the reason, it's a good spot to post
up away from the office and browse reddit on my phone.

After lunch, I was invited to attend an afternoon session at the summit,
as the discussion would run tangent to our team's goals and projects. I
grabbed my laptop and headed up to the top floor, waiting around near
the door of the conference room for things to reconvene. A friendly face
approached me, smiling and offering a hand shake. "Alex! How are you?"
he said. My thoughts raced, trying to recall his name."

"*Rrrrrrrr…. Rafael!*" I exclaimed, grateful that my memory came through
under pressure. Rafael is a good friend of mine from the Dublin office,
but most of our interaction has been over slack. We chatted for a few
moments about Madison, and I muttered something about how he managed to
visit while there was snow on the ground - a tired cliche that I've been
abusing as a buffer amidst all the social pressure.

"I owe you a beer for helping me set up Atlantis," said Rafael.

"Yeah! Let's do it, I'll take you up on that," I laughed in the last few
moments before we filed into the conference room.

Despite the awkwardness, meeting people in real life is a fun way to
complete your mental picture of things. The observations I gathered
about communication styles, body language, humor, helped add color to my
mental model of how the company works overseas.

At quitting time, I ducked out of the office to catch a bus, enjoying
the cool weather with a extra walk to the other end of the square. Back
at home, Marissa was crashed on the couch, and Rodney was busily playing
with toys in his room. Marissa was zapped from watching Rodney and
keeping him clear of the electricians installing lights in our basement.

I got Rodney out of his room and we jumped in the car, headed for the
grocery store. "How was your day dude?" I asked. I did my best to
connect with Rodney about something, but my head was still swimming from
work, and Rodney was mentally bouncing around the back seat of the car.
"GOOD. HEY, DADA, LIGHTS IN THE BASEMENT… GRRBLGLGHGGRRR…," continued
Rodney, throwing his voice on behalf of Baby Giraffe. "Oh yeah? Tell me
about it, baby giraffe" I replied, absent-mindedly.

Back at home, I set Rodney up at the dining room table so Marissa could
continue napping on the couch. He resisted at first, wanting to play
with toys and jump around in the living room, but after setting up Ninja
Turtles on the dining room computer, grabbing his markers and coloring
books, and further enticing him to remain there with cold apple juice
and some taco chips, he gave in, quietly coloring and snacking while I
prepared crunchwrap supremes.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa gave me a tour of the basement. The
electrician added new lights and light switches. "And remember all the
cables along the ceiling? They cleaned those up to!" Marissa said
excitedly.

Earlier in slack, Marissa had also told me a funny conversation she had
with the electrician. "Were the previous owners of the house really
into… *plants*?" asked the electrician scrupulously. "These outlets in
the ceiling are at 38 amps - way higher than a regular outlet."

"Maybe? The basement windows were all boarded up when we moved in,"
replied Marissa.

Though I wasn't there to witness it, I imagine there was a funny moment
of silence between Marissa and the electrician where the realization
settled in - the realization that our house was likely formerly used to
grow pot in the basement. Looking at the basement now, it makes sense.
It's sort of the perfect basement for that kind of thing, liability
aside.

"That's actually kind of a cool piece of history now," I said over
slack. "Think of everything our house has been through."

Thanks for stopping by, everyone. Hope you have a great day today.

