---
title: baby monitors, hot oil burns, and the sleeping dragon
banner: 2020-08-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Wednesday, or as the Dutch would say,
_woensdag_.  I'm currently working through "Calendar 1" of Dutch
duolingo, learning words that are a little closer to my journaling
wheelhouse.  The Dutch word for Wednesday is _woensdag_, and the word
for Thursday?  It's a good one, but you'll have to tune in _vanmorgen_
to find out.

How's everyone feeling today?  I'm off to a solid start this morning,
happy to report that the transformation back into a 6:30 AM morning
person has been completed.  I used the extra time in my day to clean
up from last night's messy dinner, take a big bite out of Wednesday
chores, and I even had some time leftover to click around on reddit
while getting some coffee in me.

I was tempted to use the extra time this morning to work on code.
I've been toying around with an interesting side project that
organically turned into a minimal markdown parser.  For the nerds at
home, I'm trying to see how much of the markdown spec I can cover with
just simple regular expression replacements, and so far I've taken
care of italics, bolds, headings, and even inline links.  But there
will be time to chip away at that project later.

_Sip_.  Let's talk about Tuesday - _dinsdag_.  The day went on as
usual - Rodney played with toys in the living room while Marissa and I
talked plans over toast and coffee.  Yesterday, the two of us were a
stark contrast in the types of mornings you can have.  On one end of
the table was me - bright eyed, bushy tailed, and after three cups of
coffee I had a thousand things I wanted to talk about.  And on the
other side of the table was Marissa.  Miles had been on-and-off crying
since the sun came up.  In between sips of coffee, she gave up trying
to sponge up Miles' spit up with a cloth and instead just surrendered
to the wriggling fussy baby on her lap, letting him use her t-shirt
instead.

Later that morning, we'd pack the car for a trip to the recycling
center, stuffing our trunk with black garbage backs, old painting
canvases, and slats of scrap wood.  With a packed car, Marissa made a
trip to the recycling center, Target, and finally to the UPS store to
return the switch we no longer needed.

Back at home, Rodney and I took on a special project - sorting out the
baby monitors.  We bought two sets of the same baby monitor kit - one
for Rodney, and one for Miles.  Over time, the separate kits got
munged together in one tangled mess.

Rodney and I went from room to room, harvesting the cables and tiny
speakers.  We cleared the dining room table, and armed with colored
stickers and cable ties, we did our best to sort out the madness.

"Come in Rodney, this is dada, do you copy?" I chirped over the
speaker from the other room.

"YES, GREAT!" said Rodney.

"Rodney, you gotta say something cool, like _ten four_ or _that's a
copy_," I advised, leaning in through the dining room door.

After Marissa returned, we took her on a tour of the new baby monitor
system.  Miles was kind enough to scream in his crib for an hour
straight, as if he wanted to help create a realistic demo.

"As you can see, we've designed a seamless audio experience," I said
as Rodney and I took Marissa on a tour through the house.  "You can
hear Miles screaming at the same volume in every room, on each floor,
with no feedback.  It's as if Miles is _always_ with you, screaming
right by your side, no matter where you are in the house."

Marissa chuckled, but she wasn't in the mood to play along.  I sent
Rodney to his room for quiet time and we sat down for a chat.

"It was just a lot of little things while I was out," said Marissa,
exhausted.  "The guy at the recycling center kind of called me out for
not re using my canvases, and the UPS store was really busy."

I noticed the switch we were supposed to return still sitting on the
dining room table.

"We needed the return code," said Marissa, following my eyes.
"Sorry - I'll try again tomorrow."

"No, that's my bad - I thought I already took care of it," I said.

"I have to do a Zoom class before dinner - mind if I just have some
time downstairs to paint and settle down?"

After putting Miles down for nap, the house grew quiet for the rest of
the afternoon.  I stole a nap of my own on the couch, and later after
collecting Rodney from his room, I started on dinner.  We were having
French bistro style chicken thighs in onion and vinegar sauce, and for
dessert I was making Rodney's new favorite treat - "sweet beef
donuts" - just without the beef this time.

Rodney played in the living room.  Marissa's friendly teaching voice
could be heard in the basement.  I stood in front of the stove,
waiting for the peanut oil to come up to temperature.  Without
thinking, I dropped in a handful of puff pastry all at once.  The hot
oil splashed - a fat drop landing on my finger with searing pain.

I swore very loudly.  So loudly that I suddenly wondered if I
interrupted the art lesson happening downstairs.

"No, we didn't hear you at all," said Marissa over dinner.

"Really?" I laughed.  "I feel like I shook the whole house."  I held
out my finger, where a pale little bubbling blister had formed.  "Hey
how did the lesson go?"

"It was wonderful," said Marissa.  "I feel like I needed that.  It was
so nice to talk to someone and feel social again.  You should have
seen how happy she was when it clicked and she figured it out - it was
cool to be a part of it."

I put Rodney to bed.  After reading him a book and tucking him in,
Rodney asked for a story.

"You want a story?  But we already read _Go Dogs Go_" I protested.

"TELL me a story," said Rodney.  "Tell me a story about..." Rodney
stopped to think for a moment.  "The MOUNTAIN."

"The mountain?  What mountain?" I asked.

From his blank expression, I surmised that Rodney had confused _the
mountain_ with _a mountain_, and was just trying to get me started.  I
transitioned smoothly.

"Oh _that_ mountain," I said.  "You mean the big, dark mountain that
is covered in a thick blanket of fog?  The one that is so hollow and
deep that you can't see the bottom?"

Rodney gripped his blanket in anticipation.

"They say this mountain was so dark, you wouldn't even be able to see
your hand in front of your face.  And the only sound that can be
heard... is the sound of the sleeping dragon."

I cupped my hand in front of my face and gurgled.

"The dragon sleeps on top of a giant pile of treasure - gold coins,
jewels, paw patrol fruit snacks, and marshmallows - the finest
treasures in all the land.  And they say that if you are extra quiet -
extra sneaky - and you are brave enough to find your way into the
mountain, you can take some for yourself.  But don't wake the dragon."

Rodney gulped.  "Pretty scary," he said, his voice cracking.  I stood
up, and just before closing his door, I growled into my hands again.
"G'night dude - have good dreams."

Hope you have a great day today, everyone.  Watch out for dragons.
