---
title: subway stories, omelets, and the valentine's game contest
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. I played a
dangerous game waking up this morning, snoozing my alarm and taking an
extra ten minutes to snuggle with the dogs in bed. Maybe it's the long
week, or maybe it's the subzero temperatures this morning, but whatever
it was, it kept me in bed a little longer than usual, and I was feeling
pinched for time in the rest of my morning routine. But from experience,
I've found that as long as I start typing by 7:30 AM sharp, things turn
out just fine. I'm showered, dressed, packed, and I have a fresh cup of
Collectivo House Blend rolling around in my empty stomach with a tall
glass of water.

Yesterday was a wonderful day. I had a productive morning, hacking on
some code and wrapping up my project for the week. It felt great to send
a final, polished patch over to the Interface team. I take great pride
in being thorough with new code, especially when working with another
team's code base. I made sure to update the related documentation,
integrate the new system into their existing build tools, and left good
instructions for how to use the new tools I added. These days, our team
is working a lot in the realm of typed configuration languages, which
for as boring as it sounds, it has really captured my imagination and
re-invigorated my interest in my work. In short, good things are
happening in Zendesk tech, and I'm grateful to be a part of it.

For lunch, I snuck away to Subway across the street and waited in line
for a sandwich, then walked back to our building with my spicy Italian
in hand. "Hey did you all check out that new sandwich place *Subway*
right by us? That place was packed, I think they're going to do really
well here," I joked while returning to my desk. A few people on my team
rolled their eyes. The Subway, of course, has been on the square for a
really long time.

A teammate of mine, Alex, used to work at Subway, and whenever I bring
back a sandwich, he usually has a good subway story to offer. "One time
this really nice old guy came in, and it was clear he had never ordered
Subway, but he was being really friendly about it. 'OK, what is all
this? How do I order Subway'," Alex shared. "But it was a terrible day,
and I wasn't having it, and I snapped at him and went off about how I
didn't have time to just give him the complete Subway training he needed
and that he should just read the menu. My manager was really upset with
me the next day, and I got written up."

We laughed, then I submitted my own Subway story to the group. "I had
bad Subway ordering anxiety, but I used to order from them every day
when I was home from college in the summer. Every now and then, on my
way out, my family would ask me to pick up sandwiches for them also, but
instead of going to one Subway, I would go to a different Subway for
each sandwich, since I didn't want to hold up the line. I wasn't
convinced I could handle simultaneously answering questions about
toppings for each sandwich." My team shook their had and laughed.
Admittedly, the story was a bit of an embellishment, in that I only
actually did this once, and it only involved two Subways. As there was a
Subway on pretty much every block where I lived, it didn't even take a
lot of extra time.

I met with our tech lead in the afternoon to plan work for our team in
the coming weeks, then went outside to catch the bus home. Marissa was
napping on the couch, and I joined her on the chair. "I set my alarm,
feel free to fall asleep," said Marissa beneath a pile of blankets and
dogs. I shut my eyes and nodded off for fifteen minutes, awoken by
Rodney coming down the stairs.

Marissa made me an omelet with bacon, mushrooms, and peppers. On the way
out the door, I chased it down with a cinnamon roll. No matter how long
I spend in the kitchen, I think she will always be the reigning champ of
making omelets - it's truly an experience.

I joined four other volunteers in the library setting up for Kids Code,
and kids started to trickle in and work on laptops. Earlier in the day,
I had bought a king sized chocolate Hershey bar, planning on holding a
contest for the best Valentine's day themed game of the evening. The
promise of a giant chocolate bar for the best game created a palpable
buzz and excitement in the room that caused people to busily and quietly
work.

Freddie re-drew the sprites of an old shooting platformer he had on
hand. You were a bright red heart defending yourself against dark hearts
that would swarm you in a fighting circle. Some swung chains, and others
could move quickly like ninja's. "What's this game called?" I asked,
waiting to write it on the whiteboard. Freddie paused his game and read
the filename he had typed, laughing at his typo. "I guess it's called
*valentins*," he said.

Mo and Kyle presented a hilarious demo of a tiny naked cupid flying
around, shooting hearts that flew out of a giant cartoonish mouth. Along
with a silly theme, they came up with a very fluid arrow aiming mechanic
that was pleasant on the eyes and made for a fun demonstration.

Owen showed off a surrealist take on the theme with a Scratch game
called *Untitled*. "He calls all of his games *Untitled*," explained
Chord as Owen trudged up to the podium and plugged in his laptop. At
first, *Untitled* appeared thrown together and sloppily sketched by
hand, but as he controlled a heart bouncing around the screen, the game
started to show its depth. "I just use the default scratch color for
everything, I like it." Pale grey hearts blinked in the background,
bringing depth to the frame. As he bounced around collecting hearts, the
music, randomly generated from stock Scratch assets, grew into a cadent,
steady cacophony of drums, cymbals, and cat meows. Freddie came forward
to try the game. "It's hard to control," said Freddie.

"I made it nearly impossible to control," said Owen. "Every two seconds,
the axes on the player are inverted."

"Owen, I think you may have an interest in surreal gaming, and it's
definitely an interesting genre," I added from the back of the room.
"Some game developers would argue that a game doesn't actually need to
be playable to convey it's message."

Lastly, Eli showed off a game called *Defeat the Ugly*, in which your
character would fire hearts at menacing, swarming squares. "You lose
love if you shoot a heart and you miss," Eli explained.

"There might be a lesson in there," I said. "Sometimes when you love
people, they don't offer you the same love you." I was going for humor,
but it led to a surprisingly poignant discussion.

The kids voted for Freddie's re-skinned zombie game. Despite the new
concept games in the running, at the end of the day, I suppose everyone
just wants to play a zombie game.

Hope you have a wonderful day today, and thanks for reading. Happy
Friday, and happy Valentine's day!

