---
title: christmas lights, planning a new garden, and meeting the
neighbors
banner: 2020-08-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday, from my tired brain to yours.
Here's to my favorite weekday morning tradition - seeing how many cups
of coffee I can have in my stomach before I have to talk to any human
beings.

It's a beautiful day today.  We've enjoyed a balmy high seventies with
almost no humidity all weekend.  There's a big hunk of construction
machinery drilling the pavement outside our house, and I know Rodney
is going to have free entertainment all day.  The house is spotless,
except for a single wet spot in the living room carpet that was
formerly an anger poop, courtesy of Queen Ziggy.  I can't figure out
why, but I know it was my fault.  And something in her eyes told me
that if I had to ask why, then I wasn't ready to ask for her
forgiveness.  Girls can be so complicated.

_Sip_.  We had a wonderful Sunday.  After leftover pizza and church at
the dining room table, we headed outside into the backyard for some
chores.  There's something about the early fall that triggers our
craving for outside work.  We even plan for it.  "Let's save that for
when we inexplicably get excited about outside work this fall," we'll
say.

Marissa wanted to hang some Christmas lights in the backyard.  She
secured my approval beforehand.  "They're technically Christmas
lights, but they don't look very Christmas-y," she explained,
tactfully omitting the detail that they were the dangly kind.  You
know - the kind that look like little glowing icicles?

"I know it's kind of silly," said Marissa.  "But it makes me happy.  I
just want to do it.  Is it too... _college dorm_?"

I put my arm around her shoulder patronizingly.  "It's _our_ college
dorm," I replied.

As Marissa finished up her summer holiday decorating, I took on the
very glamorous task of disposing of the rest of our wilted summer
garden.  Dead tomatoes, dead thyme, dead parsley - the black garbage
bag of judgment doesn't care who you were in your earthly life.  When
it arrives, it harvests us all the same.

Marissa pleaded.  "Even the lemon tree?"

"It's dead," I said coldly, flipping the pot upside down into the bag,
crimping it with my foot.

We have big plans for the garden next year.  As I took a break with
some coffee and a cigar, Marissa showed me a rough sketch of the
raised garden bed she wants to build next year.

"So if you could pick _one_ plant to really invest in," she said.

I interrupted.  "Pumpkins."

Marissa lost her train of thought and began to laugh.  "Can you
imagine?"

"Let's just go all in on tomatoes," I suggested.  "They're pretty
versatile, and they do really well here.  Could we also do lemons?"

"The problem with a lemons is they need to come inside in the winter,"
said Marissa.

"Oh but I bet they just _thrive_ in California," I exclaimed.  "They
have it so easy.  Too bad they don't grow here like walnuts." I kicked
a walnut shell across the grass to emphasize my point.

Our new neighbor and his daughter emerged from their house.  Marissa
called Rodney over.

"Hey dude, do you want to meet the new neighbors?" she asked.  Rodney
dropped what he was doing and wandered over to the deck.  He wasn't
subtle.

"HEY NEIGHBOR!" he yelled, spinning in a circle.  "IT'S RODNEY.  WHERE
ARE YOU!"

The little girl called out to him.  "HELLO," she hollered.  They
proceeded to have a friendly shouting match over our driveway.  Rodney
began to pick up toys from around the yard and hold them up for her.
She started listing off her favorite shows on Disney plus.  I can tell
they're going to be best friends.

"Dude, you guys can yell at each other any time you want," said
Marissa, smiling.

Lucas and I had a side conversation over by my garbage cans.  I asked
him about what he was up to, and how they were settling in.  He leaned
in, looking worried.

"Were those gunshots I heard the other night?" he asked quietly.

"That's what everyone is saying on Nextdoor," I said.  "But it's hard
to tell sometimes, with all the drag racing going on."

Lucas's heart sank.  "Drag racing?  Is that also a problem here?"

I did my best to back peddle and alleviate his worries.  I tried to
explain that this summer was kind of an outlier with all the civil
unrest going on, and that we had much less gun violence last summer.
I tried to explain that this area was getting quickly developed, and
the city was starting to at least take the racing problem seriously.
But I still felt guilty about breaking the news to him so crassly.
There are few feelings worse than when your words, meant to comfort,
just make somebody more worried.

"Don't beat yourself up about it," said Marissa.  "Nobody likes to be
the bearer of bad news.  And at that moment, he was probably just
concerned about _what_ you were saying, and now _how_ you were saying
it."

Lucas turned to his daughter.  "OK, my lady", he said.  "I guess you
need to put on some clothes or something."

She looked up at Rodney.  "I'LL TALK TO YOU LATER RODNEY," she
yelled.  "I HAVE TO GO PUT SOME CLOTHES ON!"

"OK!" Rodney yelled back.  "GO PUT CLOTHES ON, NICE TO MEET YOU."

As Lucas scooped her up, he broke out into song.  _Even when I close
my eyes, even when I FALL ASLEEP I still miss you baaaabe_, the tune
disappearing into the house.

"Great - now that's going to be stuck in my head all day," said
Marissa.

I nodded.  "He's got pipes.  That _fall asleep_ is a hard note to hit,
and - by God, he hit it."

For dinner, I made hash.  Inspired by some leftover chorizo and random
tupperware full of diced red onions and cilantro, it took on a
Southwest flavor profile.

"This is my favorite hash," said Marissa.

"You just like it because it has cilantro and red onions," I laughed.
She's easy to please.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
