---
title: 4 am, trips to the dump, and baked beans
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're feeling good today. We have a lot to
be thankful for today. The only thing standing between us and a
well-deserved weekend is just this measly Thursday. I don't know about
you, but I eat Thursdays for breakfast.

So there's a bit of gritty motivation to get you started. I slept pretty
well, despite waking up at 4 AM. I don't know if I woke up first, or if
Rodney woke me up somehow, but we had a funny little interaction a few
hours ago where I sat down in his bed and gave him a sip of water. He
emptied the plastic cup, and his head hit the pillow immediately after.
I could have sworn he was already snoring by the time I cracked his door
and said *g'night, dude*. I too, of course, fell right back asleep until
my usual wake up time.

At the moment, everyone who is supposed to be sleeping is contentedly
sleeping. I'm seated comfortably at my desk, wearing my favorite hoodie
and a worn pair of blue jeans. My desktop wallpaper is the ceiling of an
outdoor tent packed with hanging paper Asian lamps - a picture we took
last time we were in Amsterdam.

Yesterday was a pretty good day. Working from home, I warmed up for the
day with a cup of coffee, setting Rodney up on the couch with a cereal
bar, some juice, and some Paw Patrol re-runs. I attended our morning
stand-up from the dining room table. Rodney, curious as to what I was up
to, wandered over and joined me at the table, craning his neck into my
webcam before the meeting ended and we all bid farewell. My morning
rolled into a second meeting with my tech lead, where we filled out a
google doc's worth of questions dredged from my research that week. He
demonstrated admirable patience, taking the time to answer each question
in my bullet-pointed list spewed from my stream of conscious. It was a
great discussion.

By the time Marissa had returned from dog class, I felt like I had done
over an hour of talking. Marissa needed my help loading garbage into the
car for a trip to the dump, and the physical labor sounded like a nice
change of pace. "We can drop the stuff off at the dump before lunch,"
she explained. "Nothing feels better than returning from the dump with
an empty car, and that will make lunch so much better."

We started with the old resin table. Remember the one caked with old
resin, latex gloves and plastic gloves stuck to the surface like a
post-modern art installation? Well that post-modern piece has camping
out on our deck, too large to fit into the shed. We hauled it into the
trunk, followed by bags of garbage, pvc poles, and the remaining wood
from the basement bookshelf that I tore down. With the car packed, we
made our way behind Hy-Vee and pulled into the dump. Rodney was on high
alert, vigilantly watching out the window, waiting to point out every
police car, bucket truck, and bulldozer that came into view. "We found
out yesterday that sometimes ambulances, fire trucks, and police cars
fill up on gas here," said Marissa. "So really you need to be ready to
see *anything* at the dump."

We parked, got out, and flung each piece of garbage into the appropriate
dumpster. Last to leave was the resin table. Marissa started to flag
down an attendee for help, but before she could find someone, I hoisted
the table into the dumpster myself, grunting as the wood slammed against
the metal floor. "You know how you read about those mothers that have so
much adrenaline, that they can lift a car by themselves to save their
baby or something," I explained as we pulled out of the dump. "I think
that's what happened to me back there. I *hated* that table so much, I
was able to channel that hate and, in the heat of the moment, pick it up
by myself."

We parked the car at glass nickel to head inside for lunch. "You're
right," I said jumping out of the passenger seat scanning the empty
trunk. "This is the best feeling in the world. I'm excited for lunch
now." Marissa smiled as we headed inside.

We enjoyed a easy, long lunch at Glass Nickel, though we were
dissapointed to hear that our favorite waitress no longer works there.
Rodney still acted like he owned the place, flagging down our waiter to
show him crayon drawings and the toy planes he took with him. I enjoyed
a beer while we talked about the week.

We returned home, and I worked through the rest of the afternoon while
Rodney and Marissa napped. At 5, I crept into Rodney's room to wake him
up. The two of us went to Hy-Vee, and I had only the faintest idea of
what to make for dinner. My grocery list just said "meat" and
"vegetables". Together, we ended up picking up some cod, shallots,
brussels sprouts, and a can of baked beans. "I think tonight we can make
a mignonette sauce," I said to Rod, remembering we had a can of cream in
the fridge. Back at home, I did my best to wrestle Rodney away from the
counter while I cooked the cream sauce, roasted the sprouts, and seared
the lightly breaded fish. I had a plate of cold butter chunks on the
counter, and Rodney swiped one of the cubes off the plate, thinking it
was cheese. I kicked him out of the kitchen until dinner was ready.

"The baked beans are a bit of a non sequitur," I said plating up the
food at the table. "But I know I mentioned them this afternoon before
falling asleep, and you were probably excited about them." I suppose
there's worse things you can pair. The sweet, sugary baked beans went
pretty well with the tart cream sauce. And as always, cooking the fish
to a delicious crisp was effortless, thanks to my new battle axe of the
kitchen, my 14 inch non stick skillet.

Marissa put Rodney to bed so I could get a jump on some code. Last
night, I wrapped up the new wallpaper manager I added to our family
website. I put on a little demo for Marissa in our room, showing how you
could upload family photos to the site, and how they automatically get
added to the desktop wallpaper rotation. "Each computer in the house
runs a little script that asks for a random photo from our NAS and
updates the wallpaper every ten minutes," I explained. With the extra
time after dinner, I also wired up an RSS feed. "My goal is to make this
website useful for pretty much everything we do." We spent the rest of
the night working on chores. Marissa painted the basement floor, which
after our hard work, dried beautifully smooth and level. We crashed on
the couch with snacks and drinks at the ready. It was a good night.

Hope you have a happy Thursday, and thanks for reading.

