---
title: looking back on rats
banner: 2020-08-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

It was the Spring of 2016.  Earlier that year, in the midst of
breaking our lease on our first Madison apartment to escape bedbugs
and a hostile landlord, Marissa and I learned that we also had a
surprise baby on the way.  We bought a house on the opposite side of
town.

Everything happened so quickly.  After moving in, we relished in our
newfound independence.  Even though we had almost no furniture left
from our infestation, our dark, dingy, and empty house tucked behind a
Burger King was ours, and the mere fact that we didn't have to answer
to a landlord or building manager made it special.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/moving-in-swagger.jpg">
    <img alt="rats moving in swagger" src="/images/rats/moving-in-swagger.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Prepared for nothing, but ready for anything.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Nesting instincts took over, and we got to work fixing what we could
before Rodney arrived.  Ollie made a habit of patrolling the backyard,
pacing along the back fence with his hackles up, watching for
squirrels and birds.  Sometimes he would stand motionless, staring at
the narrow space between our shed and the fence.

"I think there's something back there," said Marissa.  "Ollie is
acting weird.  He senses something."

I chalked her paranoia up to nesting, but to appease my painfully
pregnant wife, I grabbed my cheap android phone with a cracked screen
and took some closer pictures.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/before-behind-shed.jpg">
    <img alt="rats before behind shed" src="/images/rats/before-behind-shed.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Before: behind the shed</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I saw dried up sticks and dirt.  Holding it all in like a damn was a
broken piece of old door, propping up the garbage pile from spilling
into the back yard.  Then I saw it - I caught the glimmer of two beady
little eyes.  A fat black rat was sitting in the mound of garbage in
broad daylight.

I crept around the other side of the fence to get some pictures of the
Burger King dumpster.  Sure enough, it was in terrible condition.  The
back of the dumpster was chewed out, and the ground was slick with
grease.  Garbage lined their side of the fence.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/before-spying-on-dumpster.jpg">
    <img alt="rats before spying on dumpster" src="/images/rats/before-spying-on-dumpster.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The burger King dumpster.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"You finally saw one, but I was seeing them before that," recounts
Marissa.  "I saw three of them just chilling there in broad daylight."

Marissa asked a Burger King employee if they had issues with rats.

"Oh for sure," said the girl behind the counter.  "We hate throwing
garbage away, they're just everywhere back there."

That upcoming weekend, we had a "baby moon" planned.  We were heading
to Chicago for a live podcast viewing, spending the night in a hotel
in the loop before visiting the Shedd Aquarium where we got engaged.
"We'll deal with it when we get back," I said.  "This is about
celebrating our last few weeks without a baby."

The weekend in Chicago was fun.  The ancient Shedd voucher we saved
was no longer accepted, so we had to settle for just waving at the
site of our engagement from a distance.  Sure, we could have coughed
up the sixty bucks for two new tickets and spent the day there, but we
were living pretty cheaply.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/babymoon.jpg">
    <img alt="rats babymoon" src="/images/rats/babymoon.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>So close,
yet so far away.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We spent the rest of our time in Chicago eating pizza and tooling
around the touristy part of Chicago.  Marissa fondly remembers a sassy
crossing card cat calling her as she waddled across Michigan Ave,
saying "C'mon _big momma_, move it along."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/babymomma.jpg">
    <img alt="rats babymomma" src="/images/rats/babymomma.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Big
Momma poses with a poster promoting Coloring Book, which was dropping
that summer.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After returning from our last hurray, things got serious.  I suited up
in a mask and gloves, breaking first ground after pulling away the
make shift barrier.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/worst-1.jpg">
    <img alt="rats worst 1" src="/images/rats/worst-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Moving away the door.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The mysterious mound of dirt behind our shed already began to give up
its secrets.  There was a large tunnel system behind the door.  I knew
things were about to get serious.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/worst-2.jpg">
    <img alt="rats worst 2" src="/images/rats/worst-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>It's like a terrible ant farm, isn't it?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/worst-3.jpg">
    <img alt="rats worst 3" src="/images/rats/worst-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Top view of the garbage pile, taken from my phone while I was
bravely perched between the fence and our shed wall.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

With a shovel, I got to work moving digging the garbage out.  It was
worse then it looked.  Beneath the dirt and dried up sticks were booze
bottles, rusted scrap metal, old paint cans, lead pipes, and fast food
wrappers.  The rats darted past my ankles as I dug.

My neighbor Everette peeked his head around the corner of the shed.

"Oh hell yeah," he said.  "Let's do this."  He took a long drag of a
cigarette, grabbed a shovel from his garage, and jumped into the
wreckage.

As we dug, we found several rat nests - little pieces of plastic
wrappers teased together in mattresses.  We followed the sounds
panicked high pitched squeaking - baby rats shivvering, huddling
together.  The rats had been thriving there.

The other side of the shared garage was even worse.  Buried in the
rank dirt was a coiled up chain link fence.  It took us an entire
afternoon to resurrect it.  I have a vivid, chilling memory of
standing the fence upright and shaking it, watching the rats just fall
out of the top and sides.

"It's like a luxury rat condo," I laughed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/other-side.jpg">
    <img alt="rats other side" src="/images/rats/other-side.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The other side - the rat condo.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

A common theme with all the battles we've had with pests and parasites
is survival.  When I battle a parasite for long enough, I can't help
but grow to respect it on the grounds of pure survivorship.  What
appeared to be a harmless garbage pile behind our shed was a fearfully
and wonderfully made fortress.  A nursery.  An empire.  Who knows -
maybe if they didn't get so cavalier with the mid day sunbathing, they
could have remained behind my shed for years to come.

And rats are fast.  Paradoxically, the bigger the rat was, the harder
it was to catch.  As Everette and I dug, rats would emerge from
beneath us - like something out of a horror movie.  You would catch a
brief glimpse of their pink feet poking through the ground, and than
they were gone.

It took an entire week, but we managed to dig out the garbage and
dirt.  We took our share of the garbage to the dump, and I piled the
rest on the landlord's side of the shared driveway.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/garbage.jpg">
    <img alt="rats garbage" src="/images/rats/garbage.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The full garbage pile.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

With a bucket and a shovel, I moved the dirt to a neat pile in our
driveway and covered it with a tarp.  It would take a long time to
fully dispose of it a few scoops at a time.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/dirtpile.jpg">
    <img alt="rats dirtpile" src="/images/rats/dirtpile.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The dirt pile.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

All that remained behind our shed was a flat bed of dirt and sticks.
Even the dirt looked fresher.  There was something undeniably symbolic
about the entire week.  Digging through the garbage and clearing out
the rats nest, I felt in some way I was digging through a heap of all
the painful memories and neglect lying dormant in our hundred year old
house nestled behind a Burger King and a busy road.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rats/done.jpg">
    <img alt="rats done" src="/images/rats/done.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>After the
garbage and dirt was removed.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Later that summer after Rodney was born, we found a guy on craigslist
giving away rocks.  It took another week to make trips out to the west
side and, one trunk full at a time, turn the strip of dirt into a rock
bed.

More people with rat infestations came forward.  The neighborhood was
on high alert.  We even got featured in the [local paper].  Around
work, I jokingly started referring to myself as _the Rat King of the
East Side_.

[local paper]: https://madison.com/ct/news/local/govt-and-politics/public-heath-department-investigates-rat-problem-on-east-washington/article_a49434ca-c35f-5fdd-95d3-eec4fef70810.html

What does it look like now?  I snapped this photo just a few minutes
ago, standing on Rodney's playhouse while holding my coffee mug.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/banners/2020-08-22.jpg">
    <img alt="banners 2020 08 22" src="/images/banners/2020-08-22.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Present day.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We finally replaced our flimsy trellis divider with a real vinyl
fence.  The rock bed is still there, now covered with leaves and
walnut shells.  Now, we let Rodney pee back there if he's playing
outside and too dirty to tramp his way to the upstairs bathroom.

And why shouldn't he pee back there?  We fought hard for that little
strip of dirt behind the shed.  It reminds me of a time of unspeakable
horrors and filth, but also of a time where we learned how to harness
our own instincts to get through a turbulent time in our lives.
