---
title: saturday morning cartoons, re-opening, and bottle feeding
banner: 2020-05-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  It's a beautiful day today outside, and I
couldn't be more grateful we've made it to Saturday.  This morning,
Rodney and I are munching on some cereal bars on the couch and
watching Spider-Man while Marissa and Miles are sleeping in.  I'm
still in my robe, and if not for the giant pitcher of fresh coffee
beside me keeping me focused, I might be tempted to get sucked into
Rodney's easy going Saturday morning cartoon ritual.

With regards to the TV, Rodney is at a really funny age where we has
developed specific cartoon preferences around his mood, but he's still
far off from being able to operate the remote on his own.  As a
result, I'll get into long debates with him about what to play in the
morning, standing there in my bathrobe trying to get him to make up
his mind.

"Dada?  Watch Paw Patrol?," said Rodney, setting down his half eaten
cereal bar on a plate.

"OK, Paw Patrol it is," I said.

"Nnnoooo, no paw patrol Dada," said Rodney.  "Spider."

"Spider-Man?  The show?" I asked.

"No, spider _movie_," said Rodney raising a hand.

"No, those movies are too scary, dude," I protested.  "And they're
PG-13 - I'm not making that mistake _again_.  How about Spider TV?"

"Dada - watch X Man," said Rodney with resignation.

He let me off easy this time.  Sometimes he even wants to pick the
episode based off the thumbnail image too.  I fantasize about the day
I can just toss Rodney the remote and let him take the reigns.  I'm
tired of being our Saturday morning cartoon DJ.

_Sip_.  So how are we all feeling today?  Is the quarantine starting
to get to you yet?  Here in Madison, some light appeared at the end of
the tunnel when our mayor announced that in a few days, Madison will
be moving into phase one of our reopening plan.  While masks and
social distancing will be required, stores and restaurants can reopen
and small indoor and outdoor gatherings may resume.

Yesterday morning, I sat on the front porch of our house studying the
official notice on my phone.  As Marissa began to put the lawn mower
away, I read her excerpts aloud.

"Small indoor gatherings are permissible, as long as social distancing
is implemented.  Restaurants and stores can reopen with limited
capacity," I read.

"I feel like I'm not ready for this," said Marissa thoughtfully.

"I share that feeling," I replied.  "The reopening of the country has
been so politicized, it's hard to wrap your head around it without
getting defensive, isn't it?"

Marissa nodded.

"I trust the city of Madison," I continued, rising to my feet.  "They
have clear criteria for each of the phases, and it's all data driven,
based on test results.  I trust what they're doing."

"I'm feeling anxious about it," said Marissa.  "But you're right, we
should talk about what we're going to do differently."

And while taking the family for a walk, Marissa and I forged our
family's personal re-opening plan.  "Since Madison's plan is called
_Dane Forward_, we'll call ours _Reckers Forward_," I chuckled.

As we walked, we all wore our face masks as a practicef run for
Rodney.  He handled it about as well as he did when we tried to get
him to wear a Spider-Man mask last Halloween.  But even through
blubbering, whimpering tears, he kept his little face mask on until we
reached the end of the block.

"Nice work dude," said Marissa.  "I think you've earned a piece of
candy when we get home."

If you're like us, the idea of going back to normal is a little is
daunting.  I've gotten so used to defending our city's stay at home
order, that I haven't gotten a chance to reflect on returning to
normal life.

"What do you miss most about our old life?" I asked Marissa, hoping to
steer the conversation into a more positive direction.

"I miss agility," said Marissa.  "And I think the dogs do too.  We've
gotten some good practice time in the backyard, but they miss open
space."

I smiled.  "I missed going to the movies with you guys," I laughed.
"Not even just for the movies - I just miss observing how comfortable
Rodney is at the movie theater... wailing on a big bucket of popcorn,
staring at the big screen."

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I shared a bomber on the
deck.  That night, we planned on giving Miles a bottle.

"So I normally feed him at 11:30," said Marissa.  "We'll try a bottle
instead, and if he's still happy by like 11:45..."

"Then you can grab another beer and celebrate," I chuckled, finishing
her thought.

Marissa and I stood over the kitchen sink, trying to re-remember how
to thaw and warm up milk for a bottle.  "Is it running water, or
sitting water?  Hot water?" asked Marissa while I hovered around her.

"And then you test it on your hand, right?" I added.  "Or is it the
little spot on your wrist?  You definitely don't _taste_ it, that
can't be right..."

"You know I've never felt like a new parent more than I do in this
moment," laughed Marissa.  "Why do I feel like we were so much more
prepared to do this with Rodney?"

Marissa set me up in the nursing chair with Miles and his bottle.  He
starting drinking immediately, stopping only to scold me when I
started to lose good form.

"I think he's getting mad because you're holding it too close to his
mouth," said Marissa.  "Here..." she guided my arm just a little
further back, and Miles resumed his cadent slurping.

"So that's really why he was mad a me," I laughed.  "That's
hysterical.  I think this one is going to be our ravenous eater."

"I'm scared of how big he might get," laughed Marissa.  "What if he's
like you, and he weighs thirty pounds after only a year?"

"Want to get another round?  He's eating pretty well, I think he's
going to let you have another beer," I said.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Hope you have a wonderful day
today.
