---
title: over-focusing, pizza with Rodney, naps, anxiety, and optimism
banner: 2020-03-21.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, everyone.  Hope you're feeling good, eating well, and
ready to make the most of this weekend.

I had a good work day yesterday.  I had plenty of time to focus and
write code, but with the shift into remote work, I've found a new type
of problem where I _over-focus_.  Yesterday, with no interruptions
between morning stand-up and our final meeting in the late afternoon,
I got a bit lost in my work.  I glanced up at the clock on my desktop
and saw that it was almost 1 PM.  I nearly worked through lunch time
without getting up from my desk, and after breaking concentration I
realized that my posture was terrible.  My elbows were feeling sore,
and my back was tight.

"Anyone develop a problem with focusing too hard on something?" I
asked in our afternoon meeting.  "I almost worked through lunch time
today.  With no interruptions, I forget to get up and stretch, and I
also forget to keep up with my email or messages on Slack."

"I used to have that problem," added Nate.  "When I worked remote for
a team, I would see them for fifteen minutes in the morning, and then
we'd all just work on our stuff for the rest of the day.  It's kind of
strange."

"I used to use a special app.  People make apps that limit how long
you work on something, then prompt you to take a break," said Alex.
"Along with reminding you to get up and stretch, it can help timebox
problems so you don't work on too much at once."

"I might have to check that out," I said, intrigued by the suggestion.

I headed downstairs to heat up some fried rice for a late lunch.
Marissa and Rodney joined me at the dining room table.  After we ate,
Marissa suggested we take a long walk around the neighborhood.
"That's perfect," I said.  "I worked for way too long at once this
morning, I need to move around."

We leashed the dogs and headed down our street deeper into the
neighborhood.  Our neighborhood is usually pretty quiet, especially
when it's cold outside, so everything looked so refreshingly normal.
Rodney, clearly starved for outside activity, sprinted ahead of us
with his arms swept behind him, slowing to a stop each time we reached
the road, obediently waiting to cross the street together.

Marissa's phone rang.  "The Ikea truck is going to be here soon.
Let's turn around at Oak street."  Some more furniture for Miles' room
would be delivered soon.  We made our way back just in time for the
truck to pull in the driveway.  A lady in a jumpsuit emerged form the
driver seat and stood in our front yard.

"Do you still need me to sign?" said Marissa hesitantly leaning out
our front door.

"Nope," replied the worker.  "We leave it in the front yard, take a
picture, and send it back to headquarters.  That's enough proof of
delivery for them.  They don't want us getting any closer than that."
Marissa flashed a thumbs up before closing the door.  I retreated
upstairs to finish my work day, attending a demo and a meeting, as
well as catching up on slack messages.

After work, I headed downstairs to begin making dinner.  Marissa was
teetering on the edge of a well-deserved nap on the couch, so I lured
Rodney out of the living room so she could fall asleep.  "Want to make
pizza, dude?" I said, grabbing Rodney by the hand.

"Of course!" he replied.  "I _love_ pizza."

Rodney and I set up in the kitchen and began pouring the ingredients
into the mixer.  As always, Rodney's involvement in the pizza made for
an interesting challenge.  He grabbed a butter knife out of the drawer
and tried to stab it into the mixer while it was spinning.  He must
have eaten half the cheese right off the cutting board while I grating
it for the toppings.  But the important thing is that it kept him
occupied.

"So we're done dude," I said setting aside the ingredients.  "We just
need to wait for the dough to finish rising.  Want to go play video
games?"

"YEAH!" exclaimed Rodney.  "I _love_ video games."  We retreated into
basement art studio and booted up the xbox.  I set Rodney up with
_Need For Speed_.  Ziggy jumped up in my lap, and we enjoyed a good
snuggle while watching Rodney trash a perfectly good Porsche Carrera
in incoming traffic on the fictional expressway.

We finished baking the pizza, and enjoyed it together at the dining
room table.  I cracked open a beer.  We decided to take a video call
with grandma and grandpa over snapchat.  Rodney was happy to see them
and show off the pizza we made.

"I thought you made pizza," joked grandpa.  "How come it looks like
you're eating fish sticks?"  Rodney looked down at his cubed up pizza,
confused.  "grandpa Dirk is just being silly, dude', I whispered.

"Thanks for letting me sleep," said Marissa as we were wrapping up
dinner.  "I'd like to return the favor.  Can I put him to bed?"  My
eyes lit up.  "Can _I_ take a nap?" I asked.  Marissa happily nodded,
and I retreated upstairs, instantly falling asleep in bed.  I woke up
an hour later, feeling very hazy and groggy.  Before emerging from our
bedroom to join Marissa, I sleepily fumbled my way through a Dutch
lesson and grunted my way through my evening exercises.

I'm still hanging in there with the daily push-ups, sit-ups, and
pull-ups, but I would not recommend waiting until you've eaten pizza
and taken a nap.  "Exercise is brutal after pizza," I griped after
joining Marissa downstairs, holding my stomach.

The rest of the evening was pretty low key.  I hung out with Marissa
in the basement studio while she worked on frames.  I played with the
dogs while we watched Bobs Burgers on her new TV monitor.  I'm feeling
grateful that we managed to make the basement cozy before the
coronavirus stuff happened.  It's a great, cool space to relax and
spend the evening together.

Before heading upstairs for the night, Marissa and I chatted in the
kitchen while closing up the main floor.  Marissa needed to talk.  She
shared that her anxiety has been really tough lately.  "I can't
imagine what you must be going through right now," I said consoling
her.  "If this stuff even makes me anxious, you're probably freaking
out right now."  I gave Marissa a long hug.

"I just want to be a good mom," said Marissa.  "I want Miles to be
safe and healthy, and I want to do everything I can do."

"You are a good mom, and that's why you're going to get through this,"
I said patting her on the back.  "It's scary now, but soon this will
just be an amazing part of his story.  We'll take it a day at a time,
and remember, the whole world is working on this right now.  Lots of
people are going to be having babies between now and your due date.
By then, there will probably be a good system in place."

It's becoming clear that this quarantine might define our summer, and
it might also dominate the rest of this year.  We could be doing this
social distancing thing for a while.  But I think there's still room
for optimism.  The _whole world_ is working on this, and with the
whole world stuck in their homes, we've got plenty of time to solve
immediate problems.  I think in the coming months, we're going to see
more and more adaptations to make the prospect of long term quarantine
life much less depressing.

In the meantime, it's also OK to be scared, and facts aren't always
the cure for fear.  Listen to each other, acknowledge and negotiate
with our feelings.

Occasionally, I try to lighten the mood around our house with dark
humor.  Whenever Marissa rightfully complains about some aspect of the
pregnancy, I like to chase it with "It's OK, honey.  Life will get a
lot easier after we... you know... have another baby."  Then I wag my
eyebrows to milk the sarcasm as much as I can.

This afternoon, we're going to hang outside in the backyard.  While
Rodney plays in his playhouse, I'm going to wrestle with the new
infant car seat, and Marissa is going to tidy up the back yard.  I
think it's going to be a good day.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a swell & healthy Saturday.
Don't let the virus get you down.
