---
title: paella, llama meat, and ghost pictures
banner: 2020-06-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, readers.  I hope you took it slow this morning.
Quarantine Saturdays are long, and there's no reason to rush into
anything before the coffee pot is finished brewing and the aspirin has
kicked in.  This morning, the dogs are fighting over a tattered
stuffed dragon.  Ziggy is licking her chops, probably feeling very
proud of herself for being fast enough to steal three bites of
Rodney's scrambled eggs.  The smell of bacon lingers in the air.

_Sip_.  What a wonderful day yesterday.  Our Friday morning began with
all the usual suspects.  Rodney eagerly slugged his milk and ate his
granola bar in one swift motion like a tree chipper.  I tidied up the
house, then threw on some clothes just in time for 12 o'clock story
time with Rodney's cousins.

For lunch, I threw together leek and potato soup, toasting some little
_stukjes_ of bread with cheese in the oven.  "We can't eat grilled
cheese every day," I explained.  "Sometimes, we have to settle for
eating smaller, open-faced grilled cheeses submerged in soup."

In the afternoon, we decided to take a trip to Home Depot to pick up
some supplies we'd need for yard work this weekend.

"OK," said Marissa mentally scanning the house.  "Would you just put
the dogs away?  Then I think we're ready to leave."

"Would you mind if I put some pants on too?" I laughed.

"I didn't even notice," laughed Marissa.

After parking at Home Depot... erm... _the orange store_, Rodney and
Marissa headed inside to shop.  I hung out with Miles, who immediately
got to work filling the car with powerful wailing.

"What's a matter, cHaRlEs MiNgUuuuuS?" I sang, collecting him from his
car seat.  "What's with all the _draAAAaaaaamaaaa_?"

After getting home, we decided to take a nap.  We sent Rodney to his
room, then Marissa and I shared a beer in our bedroom before sailing
off to sleep for the afternoon.  I sprang out of bed a little earlier
than the rest of the family to start on dinner.  We made paella again,
only this time, inspired from some other youtube videos, I decided to
leave the comfort of my Dutch oven and try making the dish in a large,
flat cast iron pan.

My cast iron has a questionable history with rice dishes.  Before I
discovered the miracle of non stick pins, I've had some full blown
mushy disasters while attempting to fry rice in a cast iron pan.  But
I had faith in paella.  I read that paella is traditionally made in
flat, wide, heavy bottomed _paella dishes_.  The pan hissed and
sputtered as I poured the broth into the center.  I hurriedly arranged
shrimp around the top before carefully sliding the pan into the oven.

The switch to cast iron worked out very well.  The wide, open shape of
the pan must have allowed more steam to escape, which really improved
the texture.  I even developed a nice _socarrat_ around the edges -
the special name for the bits of charred, crusty rice that you can
scrape and re incorporate into the dish while serving.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/paella.jpg">
    <img alt="paella" src="/images/paella.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Paella.  Or as Gordon Ramsay would call it, "pie-ella".</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"I'm obsessed with these crusty pieces," I boasted after we had
gathered at the table to start eating.

"So going to be honest here," said Marissa.  "I prefer the middle I
think."

"What?" I exclaimed.  "You're crazy."

"I know," replied Marissa.  "Momma's got weird preferences."

"Maybe we ought to make _Chilean_ food one night - to pay tribute to
that one-eighth portion of your ancestry.  I wonder what Chileans
eat."  I produced my phone and began to scan through the wikipedia
article on Chilean cuisine.

"Maybe it's all stuff that I have special preferences for," laughed
Marissa.

"Ope - so North Chile eats a lot of llama meat.  Llama stew.  Alpaca
stew.  Roasted llama."  I read on, listing several tradidional dishes
featuring llama meat.

"Please don't make Chilean food," said Marissa shaking her head.

"Wait - OK I think just _North_  Chille has all the llama meat.
Central Chille actually sounds pretty _lekker_."  I flipped through
the ingredients, reading the highlights that stuck out to me.  "Lots
of tomatoes, cilantro, bananas, raisins, beef..."

"That sounds like stuff I like to eat," said Marissa.

"Maybe you do have a Chilean pallet.  We can try something if you
want, but it could be hard finding llama meat," I teased.

I cleaned up the kitchen while Marissa put Rodney to bed.  I joined
them as a spectator just as they were beginning story time.  While
Marissa read to Rodney, I messed around with the spherical image
feature of my phone, carefully taking a wide screen picture of
Rodney's room.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rodneys-room.jpg">
    <img alt="rodneys room" src="/images/rodneys-room.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I could have probably gotten more of the room in the picture,
but Ollie was very content, and I didn't want to move him.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I imagine that someday, being able to virtually look around rooms in
our house as they exist now might be pretty cool, especially if VR is
more of a thing in the future.  There's still some bugs in it, though.
I've noticed that if there is someone moving around in the frame while
the camera moves around, it can make for some very _ghostly_ results,
as seen in this footage I took of a disembodied Marissa floating above
her art studio table.

"This looks like a ghost picture," I laughed.  "The kind I'd put on
the Internet if we wanted to sell tours of your haunted studio."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/marissa-floating-in-studio.jpg">
    <img alt="marissa floating in studio" src="/images/marissa-floating-in-studio.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Wasn't there a Patrick Swayze movie about this?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We finished off the night on the couch.  I forfeited my movie pick for
the evening, instead trolling around YouTube for new food recipes.  By
the time we turned in for the night, my head was swimming.

"I declare tomorrow a cozy day," I said, groaning from a belly full of
popcorn and dessert wine.  "Movie.  Breakfast.  Coffee.  Pajamas."

"We... have a lot of yardwork to do tomorrow," laughed Marissa.
"Remember, we have to do the rock bed?"

"Ah yes," I said rubbing my eyes.  "OK - well maybe that will be
relaxing in its own special kind of way."

Thanks or stopping by today.  Have a great Saturday, everyone.
