---
title: ragout, veal, and my floating head
banner: 2020-09-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday.  The end of this week felt so
far away.  But through headaches, sleepiness, and exhaustion, we've
typed, cooked, and cleaned our way to a holiday weekend - and by God,
we've earned it.

I'm feeling refreshed today.  I woke up this morning, feeling like an
extra reserve of energy was activated.  Perhaps this random hidden
reserve of energy would have been useful earlier in the week when I
had more things to do, but I'll take it now too.

I'm a little puzzled why I'm not feeling more tired today.  Marissa
and I stayed up past our usual witching hour.  At 12:10 AM my phone
alarm rang as usual.  I paused our movie and ushered the napping dogs
outside for one final potty break.  Marissa went down into the
basement to retrieve our bed sheets, returning empty handed.

"They're still a little damp," she explained.  "Sorry - I thought for sure
I came up with a trick to get them to dry more quickly.  I unbunched
_everything_ before moving them over to the dryer.  But they just
bunched up again."

"Eh, don't sweat it," I assured her.  We wandered around the kitchen
and dining room, putting things away as we continued chatting.

"I feel like I should have figured this out a long time ago," she
sighed.  "Like, is it just impossible to wash bed sheets after
dinner?"

I laughed.  "Keeping a house together is just like... a million simple
things," I mused.  "Timing everything is complicated."

I had grocery shopping on my mind.  Earlier that morning I placed an
online order.  My preparation was nearly flawless.  The night before I
laid out our next three meals in my notes.  I filled an online
shopping cart with groceries.  I even picked backup greens and
proteins in case my items were out of stock.  I double checked
everything in the morning before submitting my order, ensuring I'd get
an available spot, but there was still a bevy of complications
awaiting dinner.  The chuck roast was marked out of stock, and the
veal shoulder, along with being a little smaller than I anticipated,
was a solid frozen block.

"I still struggle with quarantine dinners," I added.  "Needing backups
for everything.  Dealing with frozen meat.  Simple problems, but the
timing of everything makes the day complicated."

I gripe about last night's dinner prep, but we made it work.  I went
ahead with making a brown veal ragout.  I made up for lost time by
cooking the potatoes separately, and to stretch the meat further, I
baked it with the bones.

I was pronouncing _ragout_ incorrectly, by the way.  Even though it's
spelled the same, it never occurred to me that as in most French
words, the _t_ is silent.  I have been calling it "rag-OUT".  "Rag
Out" sounds like a backwoods Midwestern rendition of the meal.  It's
pronounced "ra-GOO".

It also occurred to me that I had no idea what veal was.  Marissa,
still getting over a general squeamishness around veal, psyched
herself up at the table before dinner.

"So this is it," she said.  "This is baby cow."

I thought veal was lamb, and that she was just being cute.  "Oh sure,"
I retorted.  "This is just _cow_."

Marissa narrowed her eyes.  "Wait, you didn't use veal in this?"

"Of COURSE not," I assured her, thinking we were still doing a bit.
"This is _absolutely_ not veal, this is just a really spoiled baby
cow."

"Wait - what is going on right now.  What is this?" laughed Marissa.

"It's veal," I replied, finally shaking off the sarcasm.

She nodded.  "So it _is_ baby cow."

"No," I replied.  "It's veal."  I readjusted in my chair, but before
launching into a misguided mansplanation, Marissa corrected me
gracefully.

"I see what's going on here," she said.  "_Veal_ is _baby cow_."

"Do you mind if I check?" I asked, drawing out my phone.  Moments
later, I flashed my phone screen at the table.

"Dang it, you're right," I laughed.  "So I was pronouncing this dish
wrongly, _and_ I didn't even know what freakin' animal I was cooking.
Wait - so what is lamb called?"

"I think it's just called _lamb_," guess Marissa.  I googled it again.

"Huh," I said.  "It's called _mutton_.  Now I thought _mutton_ was
rabbit?  What the hell is going on here?"

If left to my own, I probably could have sat there googling animal
food terms for another hour.  Rodney, having given up on waiting for the
dinner prayer, started hungrily slurping his soup and practically had
it finished before I began eating.  Marissa slyly motioned to his
empty bowl with her eyes.

"I think someone is a fan," she whispered.

"Dude, do you want some more?" I asked.

"Dada," said Rodney beginning a question.  "What's this stuff called?"

"It's called _ragooooooo_."  I over corrected, so I wouldn't
accidentally call it "rag out" again.  "Do you like it?"

Rodney nodded and smiled.  He had brown sauce smeared on his lips and
chin.  I added another ladle full to his tiny plastic bowl.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-04/ragout.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 09 04 ragout" src="/images/2020-09-04/ragout.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Remember, the "t" is silent.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

As Rodney was finishing his second helping, Marissa and I started to
discuss plans for my birthday later this month.

"I like the idea of a virtual beer tasting with your family, that
sounds like a lot of fun," she said.  "Can we order some beer tasters
with your face on it?"

I laughed.  "Yeah, want me to take a picture now?"

"Look up and to the right," she instructed.  Moments later, she had
the image on the computer, carefully cropping out the space around my
head.  "You haven't shaved in a while, so I'm just going to have to
guess on the chin-line."

The image of my giant floating head appeared on the screen.  Rodney
and I cackled.  Marissa uploaded the image to a site and began to
order some tasters.

"Uh oh," she said.  "Eh... they're twenty dollars a piece."

"Nope!" I laughed.  "Shut it down."

At least we got this nifty floating head image out of it.  And with
the background removed, it makes for a pretty good desktop icon.  Do
you need a new icon for your trash bin?  Looking for an icon for a hot
new mobile app?  Perhaps you need an offbeat poster for an empty dorm
room wall?  Exclusive for readers of this blog, I present the official
Alex Recker floating head icon.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-09-04/floating-head.png">
    <img alt="2020 09 04 floating head" src="/images/2020-09-04/floating-head.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Friday, everyone.
