---
title: sidewalk chalk, sourdough starter, and biertje
banner: 2020-05-09.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Aren't Saturday's the best?  This morning,
Rodney and I are polishing off the last few pieces of bacon I made
while cleaning up the kitchen, contently taking in some Dinotrux
episodes on the couch.  The dogs are sleeping with one eye open as
close to Rodney's plate as possible.  Miles and his momma had a rough
time sleeping last night, so they're hitting the snooze button and
padding the morning with a few more ours of rest.  And as usual, I'm
drinking coffee as if my life depended on it.

_Sip_.  We had a wonderful day yesterday.  In the morning, I carved
out some time to work on code while a very mellow Rodney played with
toys in the living room.  Meanwhile, Marissa was scurrying around the
house, trying to get out the door in time for her doctor's
appointment.

"Geez," she sighed.  "I forgot how much work it was getting a newborn
out the door.  Would you mind helping me get stuff together?"

Rodney and I sprang to action, strapping Miles into his car seat.
"Maybe you guys can try out the sidewalk chalk this morning?"
suggested Marissa.  I sighed and made a funny face.

"Sorry," said Marissa.  "I didn't mean to commit you to anything."

"No you're right, I'm being a brat," I said.  "I'll hit a stopping
point, and then we'll get outside dude, that's a great idea."

Marissa left, and I worked for another twenty minutes before shutting
my laptop for the morning.  "Let's go check out that chalk dude," I
said rising to my feet.

With my head still swimming from working on code, I first was content
to just watch Rodney on the front step while he aimlessly colored with
chalk on the driveway.  But after a few minutes of solo work, he began
to nag me.

"Dada, draw _chalk-walk_ with me?" he pleaded.  "Draw a flower?"

I took a final sip of coffee and climbed onto my knees, drawing a
simple flower with blue petals.

"Now draw a spider-man?" asked Rodney.

"Oh a Spider-Man?" I asked, perking up.  "Dude I can actually do that,
watch this."  With ease, I used a red and blue stick of chalk to draw
a smooth head, angular eyes, and delicate webbing over the face mask.

"Now draw the neck!  Draw the neck!" said Rodney jumping up and down.
I drew a wide neck meeting broad shoulders, rounded out with some arm
muscles.  Before I knew it, the two of us were drawing a life-sized,
full color Spider-Man in the driveway.  I got so carried away that I
even forgot about our weekly story time with the cousins.y

"Let's write something next to it, dude," I said, standing back to
admire our work.  I grabbed another stick of chalk and wrote _HANG IN
THERE MADISON_ - that seemed like a quaint, encouraging message, and
it fit the Spider-Man theme.  As I was putting the finishing touches
on our master piece, Rodney grabbed another piece of chalk and waved
his arms to get my attention.

"Now we make MILES SPIDER," he yelled, pretending to paint up the
driveway.  "AND HE'S FIGHTING BAD GUYS, AND THERE'S THE X JET, AND THE
GREEN GOBLIN..."

"Dude," I laughed.  "It sounds like you're describing a whole comic
book, I don't think we have enough chalk for that.  We already used
half of it to draw this Spider-Man."

Some time later, Marissa returned from her appointment.  "It turned
out really great," she said throwing her diaper bag on the table.  "I
can tell you used to spend a lot of time drawing Spider-Man."

"I did," I said taking a sip of coffee.  "It was my go-to doodle in
school.  But I could never master perspective, or drawing him doing
something athletic, which is why I can pretty much only draw him
standing straight up in anatomical position."

After putting Rodney in his room for some quiet time, I got started on
dinner.  I was eager to bake the loaf of bread that had been proofing
in the oven all day.  This was our first batch of bread using the
homemade sourdough starter I made from wheat flour - the unsightly
science experiment that has been silently frothing and bubbling in the
corner of our dining room for almost a full week.  Our neighbors were
kind enough to feed it while we in the hospital having Miles.  Being a
living culture, it has to be fed flour and water every night.  We also
decided to name it _Krang_ honoring the fleshy brain bad guy from
teenage mutant ninja turtles.

And even his first week of life, Krang has undergone a fascinating
transformation.  After the first few feedings, Krang smelled like my
eighth grade gym locker.  But over the next few days, his good
bacteria began to thrive, kicking out the bad bacteria and taking on a
much happier, fruiter bouquet.

The bread didn't quite turn out.  The dough ball flattened into a
disc, and after twenty five minutes in a hot oven, it remained a dense
unleavened frisbee.  I ripped off a piece for us to sample at the
dinner table.

"Actually," said Marissa thoughtfully chewing the first bite.  "It
tastes really good.  It tastes like sourdough."

"Yeah," I chimed in.  "The taste is 100% there.  It's just the texture
that needs work.  I think if I just use a little more starter next
time - a bigger scoop of _Krang_ - it will be perfect."

After dinner, we suited up for a family walk.  I clambered into the
back corner of the basement to retrieve our stroller.  Before we
headed out the door, Rodney grabbed an Amstel Light out of the fridge
and gently placed it in the bottom compartment.

"What's that, dude?" I asked pointing down at the beer.

"That's a _biertje_," he replied looking back up at me.  "Daddy gets a
_biertje_ on walks."

"Well dude," I said smiling.  "We're just doing a short walk around
the block to wake up baby Miles, but I really like the way you think."

Marissa and I looked at each other and laughed.  "Really," I said,
"this is good, I'm going to choose _not_ to correct this assumption
he's made."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful Saturday, and a
relaxing weekend.
