---
title: outages, quarantine boy, and my octopus teacher
banner: 2020-10-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

_Goede morgen, mensen!_ Happy Thursday.  Surrounded by picturesque
coffee shop weather, coming to you almost a full hour and a half
behind schedule, I'm just happy to be here.

No, my alarm clock isn't broken.  I didn't accidentally oversleep.  I
didn't just decide to pull a Peter Gibbons _Office Space_ maneuver and
spontaneously stick it to the man.  Last night around 10 pm, my phone
alerted me to some unhappy servers in a production deployment of our
service.  With a deep, weary sigh, I topped off my glass of wine and
trudged up the stairs, signing onto my computer expecting the worst.

It wasn't too bad.  Just an AWS outage in a single zone.  For the
majority of our services, this just meant a little bit of scrambling
to provision some extra capacity - enough to weather through the
outage.  The whole thing started to wind down a little after 11:15 PM.
I slinked away from my computer and trudged down the stairs, finding
Marissa in the kitchen.  She had just finished doing the dishes,
wiping down the microwave and stove, and cleaning out the fridge.

"You did my chores!" I said, a sense of relief washing over me.

"It was the least I could do," she said.  "I didn't know how bad that
one would be."

"It wasn't a terrible outage," I said.  "Just had to quick slap
together an extra server and stare at the graphs for a while," I said.

After incidents, we're encouraged to take some time the next day to
re-cooperate.  Honestly, I wasn't planning on it.  Running a single
command from my computer and staring at a dashboard for a little over
an hour hardly felt like work, but my body disagreed.  I woke up at 4
AM last night to a nasty back spasm, and if it weren't for the extra
sleep padding my morning, I would have been a cold zombie at the
computer today.

The name of the game today is moderation.  Lots of stretching, lots of
water, lots of breaks to stand up and walk around.  Anything to
appease the angry little monkey fist that is wringing at my back just
behind my rib cage.  I hate the back spasms, but they do have a funny
way of moderating how much time I spend on the computer.

_Sip_.  So good morning, everyone.  How is your Thursday going, and
how was your Wednesday?  We had a nice day yesterday.  After the
regular work day, I made my way into the kitchen to prepare vegetable
soup.  Marissa and Rodney headed outside to paint the foundation of
the house.  Gingerly stepping over the rocky ground in my bare feet, I
wandered along the side path to check on their progress.

"Oh I like it," I said, staring at the fresh band of color stretching
halfway down the side of our house.  "I see why you're doing this now.
What you're painting over doesn't even look like a color."

The spot of the house Marissa was painting over looked like it was
left their by accident.  A gross, rusty green reddish tan color, like
the wall of a forgotten cave or something that just washed up from the
ocean.  The dark grey color Marissa left with each swipe her roller
was aesthetically pleasing, a welcomed change.

Meanwhile, Rodney occupied his time with two outdoor activities.  He
ran around the yard in a wide circle with his mouth open, and when he
got tired, he'd return to his little hole he was digging in the grass,
stabbing at it with his plastic bit to his toy power drill.  He was
wearing his stark bright red, white, and blue Captain America hoodie
with a spider-man beanie pulled tight over his scalp.  Something about
his brightly colored garb, the way he was wildly running around the
yard, and how his pale hairless forehead reflected the setting sun
compelled us to teasingly call him _quarantine boy_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-22-quarantine-boy.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 22 quarantine boy" src="/images/2020-10-22-quarantine-boy.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Thanks for keeping an eye on _quarantine boy_," I said.  "Want me to
take him inside?"

"Oh no problem," said Marissa.  "Not quite yet.  I can put up with him
a little longer, but he's starting to lose interest."

Quarantine boy followed me into the house anyway, and I resumed making
vegetable soup with broiled cheese bread.  To make up for our scant
cheese drawer, I resorted to just ripping up sandwich slices of
provolone.  To distract from the clashing flavors, I just added a few
cracks of pepper and shakes of thyme.  Not bad for some cheep sandwich
cheese and a stale Hy-Vee baguette.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-22-cheese-bread.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 22 cheese bread" src="/images/2020-10-22-cheese-bread.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

After dinner, we made our way upstairs for the Wheaton college Zoom
session.  Our wandering conversation led us to movie Netflix
recommendations.  Dr. Ben was particular fired up about a documentary
called _My Octopus Teacher_.

"It's about this film maker in South Africa who befriends an octopus
while snorkeling," he explained.  "He basically falls in love with the
octopus.  It's weirdly intimate.  Almost _erotic_."

"You're exaggerating," said Beth, cutting him off with a gentle elbow
to the rib.  We laughed.

"OK," I said.  "Marissa and I will watch it.  I'll be the judge of
what's going on with this guy and his octopus."

After the work incident, we only had enough time to watch about twenty
minutes, but the breath taking photography and thoughtful story
telling had us hooked.  In the film, the writer mourns how he fumbled
with his camera lens and scared the octopus away.  He spends a week
tracking the animal to its new den, and when the two are finally
reunited...

"OK, I'm just going to say it," I laughed, pausing the movie.  "This
is romantic and beautiful.  I see what Ben means now.  It's kind of
beautiful how he had to pursue his friend and prove his commitment,
and she immediately came out of the den, like she missed him.  Like
she regretted fleeing."

I'm looking forward to finishing _My Octopus Teacher_.  I promise,
it's not as weird as we're making it seem.  Give it a watch, and
you'll see what I mean.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Don't forget to stand up straight,
stretch, and take breaks from the computer.
