---
title: podcaster spirit animals, pizza sauce therapy, and guilt
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning everyone! Happy Saturday. Even amidst the apocalypse, a big
empty weekend to rest and recoup is still appreciated. We all slept in
the morning, and we're laying low all weekend. Later this afternoon,
I'll sneak out to the grocery store to forage for dinner, but in the
meantime we're all just biding our time with water, coffee, cereal,
stroopwaffels, and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

Yesterday was a long day. I attended lots of meetings for work, ending
with a final meeting where I had a virtual beer with my team over Zoom.
We chatted about this past week and the adjustment to remote life. The
same sentiment was heard around the room - more time to sleep in and get
things done, but sort of miss chatting and hanging out around the
office.

Personally, even the virtual meetings still fulfill the social needs of
my work day. I like using my webcam and microphone to participate in a
discussion. It feels like I'm running my own little podcast in the
middle of the work day. We even joked about assigning each of us a
*podcaster spirit animal*. I appointed myself as the team's Marc Maron -
overly frank, off the cuff, and sometimes a bit crass. My coworker Alex
brings more of a Joe Rogan energy to the virtual stand-ups. His head is
shaved, and he remains mostly stoic, but can get worked up about things.
Heath and Nate naturally make a good Josh and Chuck from *Stuff You
Should Know*. Charming with plenty of midwestern politeness to go
around, and since they were long time friends before working with us,
they have a natural rapport as a duo. The jury is still out on what
podcasters pair with Fong and Julia, I'll have to think about that one.

After quitting time, I headed downstairs to begin prepping the pizza
dough. As I was heaving the bag of sugar from atop the fridge, the bag
ripped, and sugar leaked out onto the floor. I clenched my teeth in
frustration. I was already in a bad mood from watching the snippets of
the presidential address upstairs before ending my work day. Marissa
grabbed the broom from the stair landing and sprung into action. "You
just keep making the dough, I got this," she said.

I set the dough aside and jumped in the car to head to Hy-Vee. I
anticipated things being a little crazy, but I was determinate to shop
for Friday groceries like I normally do. It felt good to get out of the
house, but Hy-Vee was teeming with panic and negative energy. The store
was packed with people running around and filling their shopping carts
up with disgusting amounts of food.

I found an open checkout lane. The cashier briskly swiped my items while
I watched beads of sweat on his forehead. His nametag was missing from
his shirt, and he stared past me, eyes glazed over.

"Thanks for working today," I said as he handed me my receipt. The
cashier shook his head despondently.

"I'm not gonna be working much longer," he said. "Whole stores gonna be
empty in three days if this keeps up." I drove home, and reflecting on
the small interaction started to stir up anger and bitterness within me.
As I was unloading our groceries in the driveway, I waved to our
neighbor Dana. She was playing outside with her little girl.

"Happy end of the world!" I hollered to her.

"That's exactly what I said to her this morning," laughed Dana.

"What a strange time it must be to be a kid," I said. We both stared
down at Lyra, who was taking calculated, but wobbly steps up the
driveway.

"I'm just glad she's too little to know what's going on," said Dana,
smiling.

Marissa joined me in the kitchen while I put groceries away. I'm sure
she could sense my frustration and anticipated some venting.

"People are so stupid and selfish," I opened sharply, stacking groceries
on the counter. "I just hate everyone. Hy-Vee is a complete shitshow. I
don't understand what people are doing with all this food, it's not like
they're eating more!"

Marissa sat perched on the counter, listening empathetically.

"And Madison thinks it's so green and eco-friendly. I'll tell you this,
six months from now next time I get a dirty look for asking for plastic
bags at the grocery store, I'm going to remember this week when everyone
lost their minds and think about all the food that's probably still
rotting away in their basements."

I flung another spoon into the sink. The metal clattered on the cast
iron as I hurriedly brushed crumbs off the cutting board.

"Grocery stores exist to store food!" I shouted. "By buying it all up
and sticking it in your basement, all you're doing is preventing people
from accessing it. It's all going to go to waste!"

"It's OK," said Marissa. "Just make pizza sauce, that always puts you in
a good mood." I smiled in relief. "Yeah that's a good idea," I replied.
I sliced an onion and slid it into the pot with the broad side of my
knife. The sweet perfume of onion sweat filled the air. I added five
shakes of oregano. Burying my head into the pod, the aroma made my head
feel more clear - like some kind of pizza sauce therapy.

"I'm sorry," I said to Marissa. "This is a tough time for me. I have a
lot of anger right now, and I'm trying to figure out what to do with
it."

Rodney ran into the kitchen with two foam ninja swords sheathed in the
neck hole of his t-shirt. "Hey dude," I said. "Can you put the water
bottles away."

"Coming *RIIIGHT* *UP*," said Rodney, saluting. Using his whole tiny
body, he ripped a hole in the plastic and heaved a handful of bottles
out. He began carefully stacking the bottles on the fridge shelf.
Running out of room, he used a bottle to shove the rest of the food to
the back.

"Dude, nice job," I said offering him a high five while Marissa smiled.

Rodney helped me pour the gummy pizza dough onto a sheet pan. I showed
him how to dip his fingers in the olive oil and gently tug the dough,
spreading it out evenly. Rodney cocked his head back and sneezed into
the center of the pizza. I paused and laughed.

"The chef sneezed right in the middle of our pizza," I said to Marissa
as she passed behind me. Rodney sneezed again. "Make that twice," I
called out. Living with a toddler, it's virtually impossible to avoid
exposure to whatever they have. You still have to change them, share
food with them, and wipe their noses. Our immune systems are continuous.
Rodney has had a cough and cold for the past few days - don't worry - no
fever, and the cough is more "mucousy" than dry, so he doesn't have
["the thing"].

Rodney and I popped the pizza into the oven and washed up. We practiced
our bottle flipping while waiting for it to come out of the oven. "Pizza
was a good call," I said nodding to Marissa, going into the first slice.
"This makes me happy."

After dinner, we played a quick game of jenga, then I put Rodney to bed
and took the dogs for a walk around the block. Breathing in chilly
outside air and moving my legs felt amazing. Our neighborhood looked so
quiet, peaceful, and normal.

I hung out with Marissa in the studio for a bit before returning
upstairs. I heard Rodney sobbing in his room. While sleeping, it appears
his cough worked him up to the point of puking in his bed. I grabbed
Marissa from the basement and we jumped into action, changing his
sheets, pajamas, and showering him with sympathy. He still didn't have a
fever, which was a very good thing.

"I feel guilty we didn't hear him earlier," said Marissa.

"I feel the same. No sense beating ourselves up, we did our best, and
we'll do better next time with new knowledge." While my words may have
consoled Marissa, the funk of guilt lingered in my head - a natural
pairing with the faint smell of puke in the air.

This morning, Rodney was in good spirits. He sprung out of bed, ready to
fight bad guys in front of the TV with his hockey stick. "Rodney crying
last night," he said as I was changing him out of his PJs.

"Yeah dude, that was wild," I said. "Are you ok now?"

"GOOD!" said Rodney. "I get bad guys now. Dada I'm hungry," he said
bouncing down the stairs.

Thanks for stopping by this morning. Hope you stay healthy and safe.
Please remember the people living around you, and only buy what you
need. Have a great Saturday, everyone.

  ["the thing"]: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/symptoms-testing/symptoms.html

