---
title: rodney's birthday
banner: 2020-07-09.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  I hope you're feeling good on this warm, arid
summer Thursday.  After a day of birthday shenanigans, Rodney and I
are back to our regularly scheduled programming.  We showered, ate
breakfast, and are currently posted on the couch waking up with,
respectively, a Blippi video and a hot cup of coffee.

Rodney's birthday yesterday began with breakfast in bed.  Out of all
the fun and satisfying things on the Recker breakfast menu, Rodney
specially requested the least interesting thing of all - an apple
flavored cereal bar (or a _crappy_ bar, as he calls them).

So Marissa and I did our best to spruce it up for the occasion.  We
snapped it in half and impaled it with a single birthday candle.  We
walked it into Rodney's room singing _Happy Birthday_.  Rodney just
sat on his bed and smiled.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/birthday-crappy-bar.jpg">
    <img alt="birthday crappy bar" src="/images/birthday-crappy-bar.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Are you sure you don't want... um... like an actual breakfast?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We were prepared to let Rodney enjoy his breakfast in bed, but I guess
that's not so much of a luxury when your a kid.  Rodney wanted to eat
it at the table like a regular day.  Rodney gaped at the beautiful
Spider-man cake Marissa decorated for him, and we even used the
leftover red frosting to garnish his bland cereal bar.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/birthday-eating-breakfast.jpg">
    <img alt="birthday eating breakfast" src="/images/birthday-eating-breakfast.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>"The red frosting was an impactful upgrade.  It turns out
sugar makes breakfast taste a lot better."</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

From the table, we moved to the living room to open Rodney's
presents.  With delight, Rodney tore open the wrapping paper and
cardboard while I corralled the waste into a garbage bag.  Marissa
immediately began assembling his first toy.

"I think I underestimated how complicated this toy would be," she
laughed, squinting at the instructions.  I crouched on the floor to
join the effort.  Rodney first opened a monster truck trailer stunt
ramp.  From the picture, it just looked like a big ramp attached to a
trailer, but there were smaller parts meant to serve as booby traps.
The car in the front of the pack would roll over a lever, triggering a
spring that would fling cars tailing behind.  Rodney watched with
equal parts delight and confusion as the track sprung to life and
three of the trucks went sailing across the living room.

Next came the Spider-man gifts.  Rodney opened up a very mouthy
Spider-man that, at a button press, would say phrases like _You make a
lousy bad guy!_ and _Yeah, I'm not an Avenger, but I got 'em on speed
dial_.  He also had little buttons on his wrist that would should
plastic webbing.  Rodney mashed all the buttons at once, but the web
shooter was jammed.

_PFFFFFHHHHLRFFT_.

I made a face at Marissa.  "What does that button do?" I asked
quietly?  "It sounds like he's just crapping his pants."

Marissa began to laugh as she investigated the jammed web shooter.

"Dude, why is there a button that makes Spider-man crap his pants?" I
laughed, running with the joke.

"Got it," said Marissa.  The plastic webbing flew out and rolled
across the room.  _PLLLLLFFFFRTFRFFBBBRRRLL_.  "Oh gross, that one
sounded wet," she laughed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/spiderman.jpg">
    <img alt="spiderman" src="/images/spiderman.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I hope you have a dry cleaners on speed dial too, Spider-man.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After Rodney had finished opening his gifts, we gave him some time to
play.  I had forgotten how glorious it felt to be left alone in the
morning with coffee.  I think Rodney had grown out of his old toddler
toys a long time ago, and I've just gotten used to him playing with
things like tape, markers, and socks - household items that require
more intervention than actual toys.

"Wow," I said.  "Is this morning about to be relaxing?"

"I think so," said Marissa, glancing over at Rodney.  He was splayed
out on the floor, quietly rolling his monster truck toys on his new
ramps.  With the scuffling of wheels and the quipping toy Spider-man
making the only sounds in the room, we both peacefully nodded off on
the couch.

I emerged from our unplanned morning nap to start on lunch.  For me
and Marissa, I made a batch of soup with toasted bread, but by special
request, the birthday boy got his own box of mac and cheese along with
a glass of chocolate milk - his _second_ glass of chocolate milk since
breakfast.  After eating, we played a round of Candy Land at the
table.  Regardless if he won or not, we had planned on letting Rodney
take a prize from the bowl of Spider-man party favors.  But Rodney
remains the Bobby Fischer of _Candy Land_, drawing two special candy
cards and wiping the board with us in only five turns.

We moved outside for a birthday silly string battle.  The anticipation
was palpable.  How often do you get to introduce the miracle of silly
string to another human being?  And Rodney felt the anticipation too,
donning his night vision goggles and favorite socks over his hands.
He even stopped us in the kitchen to assign us all new super hero
names.

"You're Captain America," he said pointing at me.  "And momma - you're
_sizzard_."

Marissa and I turned to each other.  "Lizzard," we said in unison.

"And Ollie," said Rodney getting on his knees.  "You're _OAK_."

"That means _the hulk_," said Marissa to me in a side conversation.

"Yeah," said Rodney overhearing.  "Look at his green eyes.  And Ziggy
is the GREEN GLO-bin."

We deployed the first silly string containers in the driveway.  Rodney
wasn't quite strong enough to handle one on his own, but he was just
as happy to _woosh_ around the yard while we did all the battling.

We chased Rodney around the driveway.  He leapt through the grass and
over our bushes.  He put up a good fight, but even with his super
speed, he could not escape the silly string assault.  Marissa stalked
Rodney through the front yard.  Rodney took cover behind me while I
took pictures.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/silly-string-sizzard.jpg">
    <img alt="silly string sizzard" src="/images/silly-string-sizzard.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The fearsome Sizzard.  Baby monitor not included.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney and I retaliated.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/silly-string-in-the-face-2.jpg">
    <img alt="silly string in the face 2" src="/images/silly-string-in-the-face-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>It turns out the Sizzard's weakness is just more silly string.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The tide turned.  _Sizzard_ was no match for a teamed up Captain
America and Super Hero Rodney.  We showed no mercy, unleashing a
barrage of gooey string.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/silly-string.jpg">
    <img alt="silly string" src="/images/silly-string.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The Sizzard retreating into her basement art studio.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

After about five minutes of battle, we spent the next twenty minutes
cleaning up all the dry, caking silly string in the front yard.

"You know silly string is a great metaphor for raising kids," I said
to Marissa.  "For every five minutes of fun they have, it probably
means twenty minutes of cleaning up for the adult in their life."

And it turns out there's no easy way to clean up silly string.
Sweeping it just breaks it into smaller pieces.  Raking it just hides
it deeper in the grass.  It turns out the most effective way to
dispose of it is to just waltz around and use your fingers to wad it
up into a big oily ball.

Rodney took his new toys to his room for quiet time, and then we
ordered a pizza for dinner.  We had been teasing Rodney all day about
how he was officially a big kid now.  Rodney laughed it off, but I
started to suspect there was some truth to the joke.  Rodney seemed
older.  It doesn't feel right calling him a toddler anymore.  In only
a year, he's grown into a boy with jokes, preferences, hopes, and
fears.  It's funny how growing up happens right in front of you every
day in your living room or at the dinner table, but you don't have a
lot of moments to stand back and appreciate the time that's passed.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day today.
