---
title: cleaning, super hero masks, and hy-vee pickup
banner: 2020-07-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Saturday.  It is Saturday, right?  I
feel like I've been spinning around in a tornado of cleaning, so it's
understandable why I might feel a little disoriented this morning.

Today is the first day of the back to back small parties we're
throwing for Rodney's birthday.  And though coronavirus would see to
it that we don't have a giant open invite bash to get ready for,
having two small parties so close together seems just as daunting now
that we're here.

"I'm going to get up _really_ early - like seven thirty," I yawned
climbing into bed last night.  "I'd like to have a few hours to myself
before I have to get Rodney out of his room and start cooking."

Waking up early today is easier said than done.  I technically did
have a few hours to myself - I just used them to keep sleeping.  With
no time for a generous, reflective wind up for the day, we'll have to
settle for the abbreviated version of my morning routine - the one
where I just throw on a robe, brew coffee, let the dogs out, feed
Krang, and start writing the second I sit down at my desk.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a good day.  In the morning, Marissa chipped
away at some more shipping, then cleaned the living room.  I took care
of the kitchen and got a jump on converting our deck into a safe,
spacious party zone.  Rodney was supposed to hang out on the couch and
watch TV, but his natural work ethic had him looking for jobs to do
around the house as well.  He helped me wash the windows, move things
around on the deck, and he tried his best to put his toys away.

We had a short break for lunch.  I made a pair of grilled cheese
sandwiches and microwaved some leftover rice pilaf.  We gobbled our
food and returned to work, pushing through until about three in the
afternoon when we crowded into the bathroom to get ready to go to the
biergarten.  We agreed to meet Alex and Cassie there for happy hour,
and after an entire day of cleaning, we were feeling deserving of a
longer break.

Miles sat in his chair, crying wildly.  Marissa and I politely elbowed
each other for a spot in front of the mirror.  Rodney wandered around
with socks on his hands.  As Miles' screams continued to fill the air,
a dumb joke came to me.

"Do you hear that?" I said to Marissa, putting my ear near the wall.
"Quiet a sec, listen."  She stared at me holding her breath as Miles
continued to scream.

"Do you hear crying?" I said.  Marissa's worried look turned to
dissapointment.  "Good one," she mouthed.

We filled a diaper bag and headed to the biergarten, finding Alex and
Cassie on a blanket near the back and rolling out a blanket of our
own.

"Can we give Rodney a present?" they asked, presenting him a bag with
wrapping paper.  Rodney happily dumped out the contents.  A set of
super hero masks and reversible super hero capes.  He sprang to his
feet and started stretching a Spider-Man mask around my face.

"Dada - you're Captain America," he said, like he was doling out stage
directions.

"Do you like it dude?  What do you say," I prodded.

"Thank you, Alex and Cassie," said Rodney without taking his eyes off
his work.

"Sorry," Marissa added.  "He's got this weird thing about putting on
new clothes right away."

"Yeah," I chuckled, wearing Rodney's mask half covering my eyes.
"Sometimes we can't even get him to put on a new hoodie or shirt.  All
new clothes need to hang out in his closet for a few days before he
starts to wear it."

Rodney followed behind me while I got me and Marissa a second round
from the outdoor bar.  I wore a mask and cape, of course.

"DADA," yelled Rodney hopping on the rock path behind me in his socks.
"ARMS OUT.  FLY!"  I nodded, adjusting my mask and extending a strong
fist out in front of me.  We walked through the sparse biergarten
through a wave of head turns and quiet chuckles.  Isn't it great how
having a four year old gives you license to be a jackass in public any
time you want?

As Rodney played on the blanket with his new super-hero masks and
capes, we talked.  Work, politics, pandemic numbers, hot takes about
_Hamilton_.  I tapped my phone screen and glanced at the time.

"We're officially in our Hy-Vee online pick-up window," I announced.
I sent Rodney over to the recycling bin to discard our beer glasses,
then we folded up the blanket and made our way back to the car.

"Can we pick-up dinner first so we can eat it in the car?" asked
Marissa.

"Sure - Hy-Vee's text thing said the order wasn't ready yet anyway.
Which is weird, because I had a time slot."

We rolled through the Portillo's drive through to get food, then made
our way to Target for a pick-up.  I took a ravenous bite of my Italian
beef.  Miles was sleeping, and the car was silent except for the
sounds of mascerating fries and a plastic straw bubbling to the tune
of Rodney sipping his chocolate shake.

"Today, I'm thankful for Portillo's," I said staring off into the
parking lot.  Marissa grunted in agreement through her burger.  I
crumpled the greasy plastic into a ball and tossed it in the paper
bag.  "Still nothing from Hy-Vee - I'm just going to park there and
ask what's going on," I said putting the car in drive.

Hy-Vee's online pickup was a in shambles.  Their designated parking
spots were completely filled, everyone with car windows open looking
quite annoyed at the handful of employees struggling to catch up.

"We're running about two hours behind," said the woman to us through
Marissa's car window.  "When was your pick-up time?"

"About two hours ago," I said, my cheekbones making a smile behind my
mask.  "So I guess we're right on time."

We waited in the parking lot for nearly an hour.  Rodney reached the
bottom of his chocolate shake and dropped the cup on the floor.  We
stared at the mess of bins, boxes, and bags strewn around the pick-up
station.  Marissa got out of the car to ask about her order, then
returned to her seat.

"She said it's on the way," said Marissa.  My phone chirped.

"Ah dang it," I said, reading the email.  "They were out of some
things.  It looks like I'll have to go back tomorrow.  And I can tell
you one thing, I'm not using the online order.  This was just a
disaster."

"To be fair," said Marissa, "this is the first time we've had a
problem like this."

Thanks for stopping by today.  And to those on the way to our house
for Rodney's party, we'll see you soon.
