---
title: turkey war stories, playing in the snow, and a training session
banner: 2020-11-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Wednesday, and welcome to what is
officially the day before Thanksgiving.  If your playbook looks
anything like mine, today is a great day to make herb butter, a green
bean salad, and some brown turkey stock from a pair of roasted wings.

Our friend Bob here is stuffed in a black garbage bag in my fridge.
Let me clear the air for any readers who missed yesterday, or for any
FBI agents that are doing their daily round-up of Internet wackos -
Bob is our turkey.  Like I said, Bob has been taking it easy all night
in an apple cider and herb flavored bath.  Yesterday while Marissa
fixed us evening drinks in the kitchen, I extracted Bob from his
plastic cocoon and rolled him into a black garbage bag.  Marissa
observed over my shoulder.

"At least he's thawed this time," I said as I crumpled the plastic up
and set it aside.

"Do you remember two years ago when we needed to use pliers to get the
guts out?" Marissa laughed.  "That was such a struggle."

"Yet another example of frozen poultry biting me in the ass," I
laughed.  "The more I think about it, I think maybe 95% of my cooking
hardships have stemmed from frozen birds.  It's my bane."

Two years ago, we hosted Thanksgiving for my family at our house.  We
didn't give the turkey enough time to thaw, so when it was time to
tress it and set it up on the roasting pan, the solid block of ice
wedged in its cavity posed a problem.  Wearing our best occasion
clothes, Marissa and I would spend most of Thanksgiving morning
chipping away at the bag of frozen organs, like a pair of scientist
that just discovered a preserved cave man.

I slipped Bob into a black garbage bag.  Against our better judgment,
we went with our fancy metal ice bucket we use to serve cold drinks at
parties (do you remember parties?).  This morning, opening the fridge
to check on Bob, I saw a small puddle of red liquid.  I grabbed a roll
of paper towels off the counter, expecting the worst.  Mysteriously,
Bob's tub only shed about an ounce of liquid, and cleaning it up was
trivial.  The garbage bag must have been punctured while transferring
it to the fridge, and perhaps the hole was plugged with a peppercorn
or something.

If the turkey works out, I'll have no choice but to incorporate the
accident into the official written instructions.  _Once the turkey is
submerged completely in brine, cut a small hole in the bag.  Allow the
raw juices to titrate into your cheese drawer throughout the night.
Do not clean your fridge._.

After cleaning up, Marissa and I continued to reminisce about the
Thanksgiving turkeys of past.  Last year, Marissa and I each made a
turkey for her side of the family.  The recipe Marissa was following
for her traditional baked bird instructed her to start with a hot oven
for the first half hour, then drop the temperature for the remaining
time.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-11-25-fridge.jpg">
<img alt="2020 11 25 fridge" src="/images/2020-11-25-fridge.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Our turkey Bob, tucked into his cozy, briney bed for the night.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

"Remember I forgot to turn the temperature down?" laughed Marissa.

"Oh yeah, your turkey speed run," I laughed.  "We opened the oven at
like 11 AM, and we were like 'yeah, that turkey finished cooking five
minutes ago'."

Meanwhile, outside on her parents' front porch smoking my own bird on
my Weber grill, I was having the exact opposite problem.  I was too
conservative with the coal, and the biting Minnesota wind made it
difficult to keep the grill lit.  As Marissa's flash cooked turkey
patiently waited on the table under wads of tinfoil, with only an hour
before dinner time my bird was still in what I call the _salmonella
zone_.  It worked out in the end.  Marissa's turkey was still warm,
and mine finished cooking just as we were setting the table.

_Sip_.  Do you have some Thanksgiving turkey war stories of your own?
And how did your Tuesday go yesterday?  Rodney was positively jazzed
from the snow fall yesterday.  By the time I came downstairs for my
second coffee refill, he was standing in the kitchen putting on his
boots and snowpants.  Rodney waited impatiently for Marissa to affix
his puffy mittens, and with his hat barely on top of his head, he
rushed out the door.

"Poor guy," laughed Marissa.  "It stopped snowing while we were eating
breakfast, and I think it's even starting to rain."

"He don't care," I said, taking a swig of coffee.  "Look at him, he's
in heaven."

Rodney wandered through the accumulated inch of wet snow in our yard
like he had just walked into Narnia.  Slipping on my flip-flops, I
stepped out onto the deck and formed a snowball.  I lobbed it at his
head.  Rodney turned around and grinned.

After lunch, I finished out the work day and joined Rodney in the
living room while Marissa cooked squash curry chicken for dinner.
Rodney hit his eating quota, and so for Rodney time we enjoyed the
newest Dude Perfect YouTube video before heading upstairs for a Zoom
call with the family.  My sister joined the call with her webcam
pointed at her new puppy, Henderson.  We showered the new member of
our family with embarrassing baby talk.

And that was pretty much my Tuesday.  I'm happy to be hear at the end
of the work week.  Marissa and Rodney are on dessert baking duty all
day, and you can count on me opening a bottle of wine at quitting time
to ring in the Holiday weekend.  By a cruel twist of fate, the last
thing I have to do today is leading a remote training session for all
the new engineers we hired in the last month.  Say a prayer for the
poor souls that will be trapped in my power point presentation around
Zendesk's high level architecture.  Trainee's - don't shoot the
messenger, but if you decide to mute me and look at something else on
your computer, I won't take it personally.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.
