---
title: salmon, poop talk, and vice president of cable management
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're feeling well today. Looking at the
weather, we should finally start to brace for some real winter weather.
It looks like for the rest of this week, we should see some on & off
snow and some chilly temperature. I'm here for the cold weather. While I
shoveled the deck and the front porch yesterday, I decided that I'm in a
winter mood.

Yesterday, I had a weird start to the day. My team at work was pretty
gracious about giving me extra time in the morning to heal up after a
bad spasm. The extra sleep offset the terrible night, and before I knew
it, I was back at work hacking on some code. While my work day was
starting up, my wife was nice enough to set me up a doctor's
appointment. They called me later that afternoon, and I managed to get
in this Wednesday morning. The nurse on the phone told me the doctor I
was seeing also specializes in realignment therapy. "It's a combination
of chiropractic therapy and massage," he told me. "That sounds amazing,"
I said, trying not to sound too enthusiastic about the massage. Who
knows, I may get my wish of a quick punch in the back and instant relief
after all.

I'm feeling encouraged that everything came together so fast. Over
lunch, my manager joined me at the seventh floor bar. Before the
holidays, he had discovered that we suffer from the same elbow nerve
affliction. "I found out what was making mine worse was all the sweets I
was eating," he explained. "I decided to lay off of sugar this month,
and eat healthier in general, and it's been really helping." I nodded,
adding, "Totally - it's all related, right? Last December I had a really
bad flare up after eating fast food in the car. I think sometimes the
salt gets to me."

After lunch, I jumped back into some code. I'm pleased to have finally
found a productive, stimulating workflow within our team's new code
base. The new programming language trips me up at times, but it already
feels like the good old days where I used to work on a big statically
compiled monolith. Making a patch, rebasing it, then scratching your
head because it no longer successfully compiles brought on some
unexpected nostalgia.

During the work session, I listened to the new posthumous Mac Miller
single, and I unintentionally let it play on loop through the afternoon.
It's a great sound, undoubtedly made more meaningful and emotional from
his death two years ago. I started a new section in my notes for the
2020 mixtape. Field research never sleeps.

Back at home, I scooped up Rodney out of his room so we could go to the
grocery store. Before we left, he asked if he could finish pooping. He
paused for a minute, standing listlessly by his window, then happily
reported "OK all done, we can change now." I try to limit the poop talk
in this journal to spare Rodney from embarrassment (and spare whatever
you had for breakfast before reading this), but he's at such a
fascinating developmental intersection, I couldn't resist. Our potty
training journey has stagnated in the limbo between diapers and toilets,
but he seems more aware of it now, and I think that first victorious
poop in the toilet is right around the corner. "Maybe we should try
pooping on the potty sometime, dude. I think you'll really like it, it's
a lot of fun," I encouraged him as we cleaned up.

Talking to my manager over lunch about eating healthier must have
mentally planted a seed, because salmon & salad found its way to our
evening grocery list. I'm also starting to notice how cheap salad can
be. A pound and a half of salmon, lettuce, a bottle of dressing,
slivered almonds, and fruits (along with some other things we needed for
the house) ran me about thirty bucks. If that feeds the three of us for
dinner and two more of us for lunch the next day, that's about six bucks
per person. *Goedkope*, I whispered to myself at the checkout aisle.
That's the Dutch word for "cheap". Finally, salad is starting to speak
my language!

Back at home, Marissa napped on the couch while I prepped the salmon. I
threw together a marinade of lemon juice, mayo, pepper, and honey, then
I set Rodney up at the dining room table with his chocolate egg.
Prepping the salad while the fish soaked in the marinade was easy. I
just sliced some cucumbers and apples and slowly incorporated them into
the lettuce. I still find the process of salad assembly to be tedious.
I'm still getting the hang of finding the right ratio of ingredients.
Last night, dropping thin slices of apple around the top of the lettuce,
I felt like I was dealing cards.

After the salmon had spent a half hour in the marinade, I moved it to
the oven and blasted it at 450F for twenty minutes. Some of the sugar in
the marinade burned along the outside of the silpat, but my silpat has
seen much worse, so I wasn't worried. If it were sentient, I imagine my
silpat would be a quiet, experienced presence in the food prep locker
room. *This? This is nothing, kid. You should have* *seen me the first
time he tried baking french cookies. Four hundred* *sixty degree oven.
Burning sugar everywhere. It was hell.*

After dinner, Marissa and I caught up on some projects. As I was waiting
for her to clean up after a paining session and help me hang a wireless
access point, I talked her ear off about my cable management securities.
"It's clear to me that I'm not good at doing cables," I explained. "And
I wanted to make sure I wasn't just intentionally sabotaging my attempts
so I could get out of it. I put a lot of time and work into it." Marissa
smirked, undoubtedly remembering how much time it took me to assemble
the monstrosity under our bar table on Sunday night. "I kind of want to
just hand it over to you, and make you, like, the Vice President of
cable management."

Marissa paused and narrowed her eyes at me. "Why just the vice
president?" she replied.

After hanging the glowing blue halo behind our dining room (and doing a
quick Internet speedtest from outside on our deck, which delighted me),
we convened on the couch to watch a movie. Marissa picked the original
*Alien*, which was a fine choice. Being a movie we've seen numerous
times together, we felt comfortable chatting, browsing the Internet, and
petting the dogs. It was a great evening.

That's what I got today. I hope you all have a wonderful day.

