---
title: grocery shopping, yeast, and go-bags
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to the work week.  I hope you are
feeling energized and ready to attack another Monday through Friday
with me.  And if you're not feeling energized yet, that's OK too.
Between you and me, I spent too much time this weekend drinking beer
and eating Marissa's peanut butter cookies.  So I'm landing on the
lethargic side of the spectrum this morning.  But you know what they
say - _fake it 'til you make it_.

_Sip_.  We had a great day yesterday.  Sunday has turned into grocery
day, so after getting Rodney out of bed, finishing my writing, and
getting my fill of coffee, I suited up and headed for Hy-Vee.  In a
continuing effort to pin down exactly what's been bumming me out about
quarantine shopping, I decided to spring for some foods that I'd look
forward to eating, grabbing some pancietta, fancy cheeses, a few extra
fresh vegetables, and a new wave of _lekker_ quick breakfast snacks.
I also picked up a few more frozen chickens, as those seemed to work
out pretty well last time.

"Do you really want to make stock again?  It seemed like a lot of work
last time?" asked Marissa while helping me put together the list.

"It actually wasn't too bad," I replied.  "I think I was just hanging
around the stock pot because it was my first time making it, and I was
curious how it would turn out.  And cutting up whole chickens is a lot
of fun - I'd like to get good at that."

The rest of the grocery trip went well enough.  Here's a summary of
the victories and upsets:

- Goat cheese is now the star of the cheese drawer.
- No _Hungry Jack_.  We're temporarily a _Mrs. Butterworth_ family,
  and the news was scandalous
- Blueberry Muffins replenished, big win for Pregnancy Cravings
- The only frozen waffles they had we're Micky Mouse shaped.  Marissa
  took the news well.
- Couldn't find the animal crackers, but Rodney accepted Sour Cream &
  Onion Pringles in consolation.
- Acquired our first 8 pack of toilet paper since January; pooping
  stress at an all time low.
- Paw Patrol Mac 'n Cheese fully replenished.

After returning from the store, Marissa and I unpacked the groceries
while Rodney excitedly walked around inspecting our new stock.  As we
continued to put things away, Rodney pulled his step ladder over to
the pantry and began setting up an imaginary store just in time for us
to make lunch.

"Well hello, sir.  I'd like to buy this can of grapefruit," said Marissa.

"OK, you got it!  Coming right up!" replied Rodney, sitting there in
silence, unsure what to do.  Marissa took the initiative.

"I have 10 dollars here, will that be enough?" she asked.

"TEN DOLLARS?" squawked Rodney.  "OH YES.  Coming right up."

We ate lunch on the back porch.  It was a true hot mess of a meal
fitting for the hectic quarantine grocery day - a stack of sour cream
& onion Pringles, a bag of paw patrol fruits, and a giant cheesy
omelet made with five eggs that were face to face with their
expiration date.  I doused my share of the omelet copiously with hot
sauce.  After lunch, we spent some time outside, letting Rodney burn
some energy while Marissa and I installed some new fencing to keep
rabbits out of our yard.

We put Rodney in his room for naptime, and after brewing another pot
of coffee Marissa and I settled in for church.  Ziggy crawled into my
lap and turned into an atom bomb of warm puppy coziness, and I had to
fight the urge to fall asleep.

Naps and YouTube carried us into evening, and soon I was in the
kitchen with Rodney prepping our fajitas.  Rodney ran around outside
chasing a balloon, and in a test of patience I had to step away from a
sizzling steak on a smoking, roaring stove to retrieve his balloon
from the other side of the fence.  But I take pride in being able to
cook while entertaining Rodney, and what he doesn't completely ruin
with his kitchen antics only makes us stronger.

In between making our usual fajitas, I rolled another in-progress
batch of bread onto the table.  This was the batch that Marissa and I
measured and mixed meticulously, reading right off the YouTube video.
But the dough ball hadn't transformed into the magical puffy & sticky
web we expected.  It remained a chilly, dense sludge that
unenthusiastically rolled out of the bowl the same way I roll out of
bed on Monday mornings.

"I don't understand," I said to Marissa.  "All these videos we're
watching say that you need to slow down yeast in the fridge to make it
taste better, but it's not working."

"Yeah, and now I'm upset.  We made this one together.  We were very
careful, and we even measured everything," she replied.

"I think our fridge just kills the yeast.  Maybe that crap only works
in France or California.  I bet out here you can't be so tough on
yeast," I answered.  "No more fridge.  We've only had success on the
counter at room temperature, so let's just stick with that."

Just for kicks, I baked the bread dough anyway.  The failed batter
used it's proofing time to dry out, spread out, and take on the shape
of a teenage mutant ninja turtles villian.  The puddles of dough
hardened into what looked like two dried, cracked bongo drums.  Rodney
and I broke open the bread together to inspect the dough.  It was
heavy and cakey.  I formed the dough into a tight ball and threw it
into the dining room like a bouncy ball, and Rodney ran after it with
delight.

We set aside the rest of the evening to pack Rodney's go-bag.  Things
are getting real now, and as I packed a few change of clothes for
Rodney to wear during his stay at my coworker's place, I thought more
about having a baby.

"It's going to be fascinating watching Rodney deal with all of this,"
I said.  "Even just like... how do you think he's going to handle
having to watch all his old TV shows again?"

"Remember the phase where he just wanted to watch _Sing_ on repeat?
That was brutal," laughed Marissa.

"Oh God, and _Paw Patrol_.  We were stuck on _Paw Patrol_ for so long,
I think he might get sick of it this time around," I laughed.

I have faith in Rodney.  He seems primed for the new phase of life.
And for the last few months, he's insisted we refer to him as "Big
Brother Rodney", like an official title.  I think he's excited too.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
Monday.
