---
title: election day, rocky road bars, and extreme home office makeover
banner: 2020-11-03.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Welcome to Tuesday.  How is your day going
so far?

This morning, some guys are showing up to paint the panels of our
house.  Promising to show up some time between 8-9, that time window
has about fifteen minutes of overlap with the intimate part of my
morning routine where I clean up the kitchen wearing my matronly grey
bath robe.  I was preparing for the worst.  If there was a knock on
the door, I'd have no choice but to greet them in all my raw, robed,
unshowered, pre-coffee splendor.  Thanks goodness we're already in the
later side of the appointment window and it didn't need to come to
that.

_Sip_.  How's it going?  How do you feel about election day?  I'm
feeling a complicated cocktail of emotions.  I feel a steady trip of
anger and irritability, and the bombardment of political text messages
and viral, sanctimonious PSA's from celebrities isn't helping.  No
matter what side you fall on in this election, there is one thing that
unites us.  It's that tonight at midnight marks the moment where we'll
stop getting blown up by text messages and receiving dumb little daily
fliers in the mail.  Freedom.

I'm on edge today, and I think I'm going to have to lay low.  It's a
good thing that my work blocked off all meetings today to give people
time to vote.  Marissa and I voted a long time ago, dropping off our
ballots in the nearby park, but I still appreciate the extra mental
space to work on corralling all this angst and anxiety.

When I wasn't thinking about the election, I actually had a pretty
enjoyable work day yesterday.  It's hard to describe how wonderful it
was to just show up to a meeting and listen, and being a newcomer on
the team, it was totally in my right to do so.  I did some talking
too, but I'm mostly in _learning mode_.

In fact, I'm feeling proud that I found a way to mobilize my intern
Connor in a way that benefits both of us.  "Since we're _both_ the new
guys, how about this week we go on a fact finding mission," I wrote
over slack.  "We need to figure out what are team is building, what
we've done so far, and what we'll be working on for the next few
months.  I'll do the research too, and at the end of the week, we'll
compare notes."

I also called out some "snack work" for him to do if he gets bored.  A
"snack", as I explained, is sort of a joke term for busy work that's
usually more fun and more interesting than regular work.  Write a
script to do something, learn how to use a new tool, prune your gmail
filters, update your emacs plugins, clean up the files on your
computer.  You can avoid "snacks", or you can do what I do - use them
to keep motivated and engaged while you slog through a bigger task.

And speaking of motivation, I'd like to give a shout out to [Chef
John's Rocky Road Bars].  Dark chocolate, marshmallows, and almonds
rolled together in a delectable frozen bar and dusted with cocoa
powder.  Marissa made a double batch this weekend, and we're probably
working through the Tupperware bin twice as quickly.

"The best part about these is probably the cocoa powder," I said as we
wolfed down an extra helping standing beside the freezer.  "It's a
nice little caffeine buzz to get your through the afternoon."

For dinner, I dragged out another favorite Chef John recipe for tomato
bisque.  Just some vegetables, chicken stock, blended tomatoes, and -
get this - rice.  The recipe called for a quarter cup of white rice,
and even though everything gets blended together anyway, the rice adds
just enough starch to give it a shimmer and a velvety texture.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I met upstairs to plan out
the week.  After finally biting the bullet on the dreaded car chores
last weekend, we're free to take on some more interesting projects.
This week we're officially kicking off our extreme home office make
over.  Phase 1: extending my desk all the way to the wall.

"And I hope you don't mind that I round the corners too," said
Marissa, pointing to a corner of my desk.  My neck stiffened.  I
stared at my desk with my brow furrowed.

"Can you... explain that again?" I asked.

"Just slightly, so we don't have the sharp corners," she explained.

"Oh OK," I said with hesitation.  "As long as we don't lop off too
much, I like to keep my coffee cup here."

Marissa patiently nodded.

"Sorry," I chuckled.  "I'm a lot pickier about this area than I
realized.  I'm really excited, but you'll have to be patient with me."

After we extend the desk to the wall, we'll add a second chair.
Marissa also wants to clean up some of the wall space around my
computer, which between the random posters and all of Rodney's taped
up alphabet practice sheets, could use a touch of design.

"Maybe I could even move my microphone to above the computer," I said
leaning back in my chair.  "Wouldn't that be nice?  I could just pull
it down whenever I need to use it."

Marissa wrinkled her nose and laughed.  "Sort of like in a wrestling
match?"

Along with the desk project, we're also tackling a new art video this
week.  Marissa is filming a short intro video.  We cracked our heads
together on some good questions to answer.  Tonight, we're recording
the audio and I'm going to try to layer it over some new footage of
her working in the studio.

Busy week, but we're almost there.  It's already Tuesday.  I have a
feeling we're about to slip into that part of the week that feels like
the drop in a water slide.  Before we know it, we'll be at the bottom,
skittering on our butts into a comfortable weekend.

Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  Have a great day today.

[Chef John's Rocky Road Bars]: https://youtu.be/RIw5Pi9eDwE
