---
title: chili, legal training, and ollie the office dog
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! How are you feeling today? We're rolling over
into the second day of clouds and rain, but I think all the moisture is
good for the air. The wet, cold air feels good in my lungs, and if you
haven't yet had the chance, I'd recommend cracking a window and taking
it all in.

I'm pretty comfortable at the moment. I've got a fresh cup of coffee at
my desk, and *terwijl de mensen en de honden slapen*, I'm listening to
some Frank Ocean in my headphones.

*Sip*. I'm feeling good today, and I think that's because I had such a
great day yesterday. Yesterday, I sat at my desk and attending some
meetings, periodically walking downstairs to stretch my legs, stare out
the window, or fill up on coffee. "Hi coworkers," I said to my family
coming down the stairs for coffee. Marissa was on the couch, and Rodney
was taking in an episode of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.

On the work front, we had a planning meeting, then I sat through a
training created by our legal department. I watched a series of
interactive videos where I had to review the rules around insider
training, fair business practices, and what kind of information I'm
allowed to disclose about Zendesk. Since I don't deal with customers
directly, there's a limit to how much damage I could cause, but these
days I'm writing a lot of words on the public Internet. Since I
inevitably tell a lot of stories about work, I thought it best to stay
sharp and pay attention throughout the training. The takeaway here is
that next time a government official from Iran wants to send me a gift
for joining his advisory board for a product that, in exchange for
letting my cousin work at his weapons depot, I will aggressively
persuade Zendesk to acquire - all in a verbal agreement over a lavish
golfing and massage trip in beautiful Cuba - I'll be well-equipped to
*JUST SAY NO*.

After brushing up on my legal training, I headed downstairs to heat up a
bowl of goulash. I plopped down on the couch with a hot bowl of noodles
and beef and changed the channel to *Whose Line Is It Anyway?*. At
first, changing the channel was an unpopular decision. Rodney was in the
sweet spot of a late morning TMNT binge, but soon the antics of the
loveable *Whose Line Is It Anyway?* cast won him over. When I finished
my lunch, Rodney joined me on the chair, watching the rest of the
episode on my lap.

Marissa packed her and Rodney a lunch, then left with him to go to
Sports Zone and work on her mural. She took Ziggy with her, leaving just
me and Ollie to watch the house. Ollie remained downstairs, patrolling
the living room, dining room, and kitchen.

"I think Ollie likes it when I work out of the house," I said to Marissa
later.

"Yeah?" she replied. "Did he sleep under you desk?"

"Nah," I laughed. "But he just sort of hung around the living room like
a security guard. I could have sworn he even nodded at me when I passed.
He would make a good office dog, I think."

At quitting time, Marissa picked me up from the house, offering to give
me a lift downtown. I wanted to pick up some extra IT supplies form the
office, and she would circle the square until I was finished. Wearing my
sweats and a ratty white t shirt, I swiped into the elevator and entered
my floor. My swipes were already used up for the month at the little
vending machine maintained by IT, so I returned to my office desk to
scavenge for parts. I returned to the car with my laptop stand, a USB to
USB-C dongle for my keyboard, and my trackpad. Setting it all up back at
home, I was content to have almost perfect parity with my set-up at work
- laptop on a stand to the right, big monitor on the left, trackpad, and
keyboard. Once my HDMI to USB-C cable arrives in the mail, I'll actually
be able to use that second monitor, and then we'll *really* be cooking
with gas.

Marissa hopped out the car in the driveway and took Ziggy in the house.
I slid over to the driver seat, and Rodney and I made our way over to
the grocery store.

"Hey Rod," I said pivoting around in the driver seat. "Want to go to the
grocery store and pick up stuff for chili?"

"No chilly, dada. Bhrrr." said Rodney, clutching his arms. It's a shame
that was lost in translation, but I'm not sure how we could have avoided
that one. We drove through the winding, narrow streets of Atwood and
parked at the grocery store. We picked up ground beef, an onion, some
canned tomatoes, and two boxes of corn muffin mix. We also picked up a
block of aged white cheddar.

Back in our kitchen, I got to cooking chili. Rodney fiddled with the
wodden spoon standing on top the folding ladder while I diced an onion
and browned the ground beef. After some tomatoes, spices, and cold
water, the pot was simmering and all that was left to do was wait.

We'd eat a later dinner. This rendition of chili was a baked version.
Once the chili was done simmering, I'd pour it into a casserole dish and
top it with cornbread batter and bake the dish for a half hour. Rodney,
who has become accustomed to eating at 7 sharp, wandered in and out of
the kitchen asking for more handfuls of shredded white cheddar. As it
got closer to 7:20, he'd wander in every 90 seconds. "Hi Dada. Um,
Rodney need *cheese*," he'd say looking down at his feet shuffling,
holding the handle of the fridge door.

At last, we ate chili and cornbread at the table. It was a delicious
recipe, and pretty good for only a \$30 grocery bill, considering we now
have enough leftover chili to eat for the rest of the week if we wanted
to.

"Let's just eat chili every day this week," laughed Marissa, watching me
fill tupperware for the fridge.

I put Rodney to bed, joining him in his new roomy twin for story time.
"I like your new bed, dude," I said, stretching my legs to the end. "I
can lay next to you and read, and it doesn't feel like I'm hiding in a
suitcase."

I hope you have a wonderful day today. Thanks for stopping by this
morning.

