---
title: video games, motorcycles, and bacon (the french way)
banner: 2020-03-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Hope you're having a relaxing Sunday thus
far.  To accommodate sleeping in, a lengthy brunch, and their father's
stubborn daily journaling habit, my family has decided to attend
the... _glances at clock_... 1 PM service today.  Of course, when you
watch church on YouTube, church is whenever you want it to be.

I'm grateful that our church was able to adapt to live streaming so
quickly.  Going from _occasionally_ publishing videos to publishing a
live video every week is not an easy thing to do, and I applaud the
effort.  I'd add video editors to the ranks of doctors, nurses, and
grocery store workers, who have all shown to be invaluable heroes
during this pandemic.

_Sip_.  I had a great day yesterday.  We had a slow start to the
morning.  Marissa and I stayed up too late the day before watching
episodes of _Tiger King_.  The show had a strong start - the first two
episodes led me and Marissa to some interesting discussions.  But the
show is starting to give us diminishing returns.

"I think this is a classic case of a _flash in the pan_ Netflix
documentary that we might have enjoyed if it weren't so overhyped," I
said.  "After all the things people were telling me, I was expecting
it to get _really_ weird.  Like _insanely_ weird."

"Yeah," agreed Marissa.  "And now at this point it's just kind of
sad. I hate thinking about how the animals got wrapped up with all
these toxic people.  And plus, I think it's only popular because
everyone is home and there's nothing to do."

"Yes," I nodded.  "It was great timing for a little docuseries like
this."

After sharing a French omelette, Rodney and I hung out on the couch in
the living room.  We heard a shuffling on the front porch.  Peaking my
head out the window, I saw two yellow Xbox game sized envelopes
sitting on our front step.  "Hey dude, I think the mail is here," I
said to Rodney, acting surprised.  "Do you think are new games
arrived in the mail?"

Rodney's face lit up, and he leapt to his feet to run over to the
door.  We retrieved the envelops from the front step and ran them over
to the table.  Having plenty of fond memories of opening new games in
the mail, I wanted to make sure Rodney could savor the feeling.  We
sat down at the table, slowly peeling open the envelopes.  Rodney
unsleeved the games, excitedly pulling them out, studying the front
cover.

"Dude, do you want to go _play them_?" I asked.

"YEAHHHHHHH," yelled Rodney, running into the kitchen.

"Is it OK if I get started on painting?" asked Marissa while enjoying
her coffee.

"Oh definitely," I replied.  "We're probably going to be in the
basement for a while.  I think he'll be good.  He dude, do you have to
go potty?"

"NO.  No potty.  I wanna play GAMES," yelled Rodney.

"See?  Doesn't even have time to potty," I said, following Rodney
downstairs.

Rodney and I first played the much anticipated _motorcycle_ game.  It
was perfect - no frills, no gimmicks, no distractions.  You just play
as some guy riding a motorcycle around a hilly desert.  There were
little buildings, towns, and even some NPC's driving trucks and cars
slowly down the road.  The game was practically made for Rodney.

Rodney sat on my lap, completely infatuated with the game.  But he had
a hard time understanding the controls.  He seemed to think that it
was necessary to hold the right thumbstick in one direction, which
sent the camera spinning in a continuous circle.  "I don't know how
you drive like that, dude, the camera doesn't need to move," I said,
giving my eyes a break from the screen and turning to my twitter feed.

"Dada, can we play Spider-Man game now?" asked Rodney.

"Sure dude!" I said, happily swapping out the disks.  The Spider-Man
game we got was _Shattered Dimensions_, an old favorite from my
original collection.  The game holds up - beautiful art, great
storyline, and fun to play through even after you've beaten it.  The
first level took me and Rodney to the jungle where we were being
chased by the notorious Kraven.

I handed Rodney the controller.  He spent five minutes leaping into
the same cavern and dying, but at least the game was classy about it,
sparing us of any gratuitous _you died_ cut scenes.  The game would
just briefly fade to red, then transport Spider-man back to the ledge
from which he fell.  Of course, Rodney would immediately leap off
again.

"I like playing video games with Rodney, but it can get a little
demoralizing," I said to Marissa.

"What do you mean?" she replied.

"He wants to play, but he's nowhere close to being able to understand
the games.  So usually when I hand him the controller, it just means I
have to keep him interested while Kraven kicks spider-man's ass for
thirty minutes straight."  Marissa laughed.

"I feel like I've watched Spider-Man die 10,000 times today.  It's
exhausting!" I added.

"How is the motorcycle game?" asked Marissa.

"It's pretty sweet.  Literally just driving motorcycles around," I
replied.  "But Rodney usually gets his wheel wedged between rocks, and
being too stubborn to let me help, he just revs the engine or spins
the camera in circles until I hit the reset button without him
knowing."

Rodney and I headed upstairs for some leftovers.  The new video games
had revved him up, so I decided to play some Mister Rogers to help him
wind down.  The theme song palpably sapped the entire house of boyish
energy, and soon Rodney was sitting contently on the couch primed for
a nap.

While Rodney slept, Marissa continued painting and I caught up on some
YouTube videos.  I'm grateful that all my favorite YouTube chef's are
stepping up and showing how to adapt to cooking in pandemic life.
Stephan's channel feawtured an interesting recipe involving bacon,
onions, and potatoes.  I moved to the kitchen to get started.

One interesting thing I've noticed about French cooking is that, from
what I can tell, they don't like to fry bacon.  Following the
instructions, I cooked it in the bottom of a Dutch oven just long
enough to render out some fat and take on a little bit of color.
Immediately after, I added diced onion.  The onion soaked up the
remaining fat, and the bacon continued to sweat without taking on any
texture.

I didn't think it would work out.  But like a strange magic trick,
what was once cheap frozen packaged bacon was transformed into sweet,
fragrant pork.  I added quartered potatoes and chicken broth, then
left the pot in the oven while it cooked down.  I finished it under
the broiler.

"I saw some of the video while you were watching this," said Marissa.
"And I didn't think it would turn out this good."

"Yeah I'm right there with you," I replied.  "I was very doubtful that
sweating cheap bacon with onions could turn out this good.  But
Stephan strikes again."

After putting Rodney to bed, I took a power nap, finally sleeping off
the _Tiger King_ grogginess.  After waking, I joined Marissa
downstairs while she finished up in the studio, biding my time by
driving a motorcycle around the desert.

That's my time for today.  Looks like I'm late for church.  Thanks for
stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a great day today.
