---
title: a troll tooth, goat cheese, and a spider party
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  After getting out of bed on
time, showering, and brewing coffee, I suppose we're too deep into
this Monday to quit now, and we might as well get on with it.  The
house is quiet.  The dishwasher is empty.  The yeast fed.  The dogs
sleep on different corners of the carpet and couch, trying to pad
their own morning with an extra nap.  Marissa sips coffee behind me
over the sound of a fussy, grunting, Miles.

"I don't know how you wake up earlier than me," said Marissa.  "Don't
you just... like... want to die?"

"Sometimes," I said, before staring blankly out the window.  I broke
my trance and leaned in to see Miles.  "And what does Mr. Single Troll
Toof have to say about that?"

Yesterday, we discovered Miles was hiding a single little tooth.  Not
a normal one.  Not a top tooth.  A single, wide, fleshy bottom tooth.

"It's his monster tooth," I said, teasing.  "No, his scary tooth.  His
_punk_ tooth.  His _troll tooth_."

"You're so weird, dude," said Marissa leaning in, trying to get a good
look.  "You're not supposed to get any teeth yet.  Especially not on
the bottom."  Tickling his mouth open, she gently grabbed his chin.
"There - see it?"

"Oh that's just horrible looking," I sneered.  "He's just like a
little creature now.  With a single bottom tooth, for raking.  For
ripping."

"I'm most surprised that he cut his first tooth without us noticing,"
Marissa added.  "I thought the pain was supposed to be kind of an
ordeal.  No screaming, no drooling, no trouble sleeping."

"Well he's had such a ride with puking and acid reflux, maybe _Charles
Mingus_ is just the world's toughest baby and he doesn't feel pain
anymore."

Marissa reminded me that in only four weeks, Miles will switch to the
early stages of baby food.  We'll have to set up the high chair at the
table, which means we'll need a new seating arrangement.

"I think the easiest way to do this is nobody sitting at the head of
the table.  We'll sit across from each other, with a _wingus_ on
either side of us," explained Marissa

"Man to man coverage," I said.  "That works.  Are you OK switching
spots, dude?" I asked.  Rodney nodded with a mouthful of food.

"You know this time around, I thought all these milestones like teeth
and food would make me into having another kid," said Marissa.

"Like they would tempt you into changing your mind?" I asked.

"Yeah," explained Marissa.  "But it's the opposite.  For each thing
that happens, I'm just feeling grateful that we could be all done with
it forever."

_Sip_.  So how was your Sunday?  Beyond just watching the football
game and cleaning up after ourselves, we didn't do much.  Sadly, the
Bears caught their first loss yesterday, and for the first time this
season we experienced the losing side of a football Sunday.

"I'm kind of bummed," I said.  "I think about _now_ is when we'd have
that fourth quarter adrenaline rush, and that would pretty much carry
us through dinner."

The Colts deepened their lead with another field goal.  The bears
scored an unceremonious touchdown, then lost an on side kick.  We let
the game continue to play on the TV, but I wandered around the house
sipping on tequila and putting things away.  There was a knock at the
door.

"Who is it?" asked Marissa.  I craned my neck to peer through the
front door window.  "Ah, it's our neighbor."

"Which neighbor?" asked Marissa.

"The new one," I said, forgetting his name.  "The _hippy_ one."

Our neighbor Lucas awaited on our front step, a cautious distance from
the door.  He waved and smiled.  I cracked the door, holding back
Ziggy with my leg.

"Do you want some goat cheese?" He called out.  "We and Talia made too
much.  It's a little salty."

"Oh sure thing!" I replied.  "Just... leave it on the step I guess."

Lucas set down the Tupperware and smiled.  I gave a friendly wave
back.

"What is it?" asked Marissa.

I stepped back into the house and shut the door.  "He said he made us
some goat cheese."  As the words escaped my mouth, I immediately
regretted not asking Lucas more questions.

"He made... goat cheese?" said Marissa, wrinkling her nose.

"Yeah, now I have so many questions," I laughed, inspecting the
container.  "Like did he start with goats milk... or did he start with
a goat?"

Marissa leaned to look out the window towards his house.  "He doesn't
have a goat back there, does he?"

After dinner, I put Rodney to bed.  I sat in his room, watching him
pat himself dry from his bubble path and find a clean pair of jammies.

"What's going on over there on your window sill?" I asked.

"That's a SPIDER party," said Rodney, doing a little hop in place to
emphasize the excitement.

"A spider party?" I replied.  "Oh how cool."

All five of his little lego characters stood on the ledge, like they
were mingling at a party.  Mysterio lay face down, his stiff purple
cape extending in the air.  Carnage stood in the middle of the group
with his menacing, dangling red arms.  Spider man rested on the floor
beside the wreckage of his helicopter.

"Why don't you take a picture of it, dude?" I said, handing Rodney my
phone.  He scampered away and held the camera lens up close.  He made
off with my phone and took some pictures of Mom too.

{% include figure.html filename="2020-10-05-mom.jpg" %}

"What do you like most about Momma?" I asked as Rodney climbed back
into bed.

"Hmm.  I dunno," said Rodney.

"What is your favorite thing that you and momma do together?" I
rephrased.

"Dada, I have _no_ idea," said Rodney, pleading.  Marissa laughed from
the other room.

When Rodney says that, he stresses the _no_.  I have _no_ idea.  It
sounds so human and relatable, doesn't it?

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Monday, everyone.
