---
title: looking back on my first apartment
banner: 2020-09-12.jpg
---

Let me take you back to the summer of 2013.  After securing a job as a
junior software engineer early in the semester, it was nothing but
smooth sailing ahead through graduation.  I left college and moved
back in with my parents.  The arrangement was to live at home with my
folks for a while and commute to Rockford until I married Marissa, and
even though we weren't engaged, we had a mutual understanding that
would take place sometime in the summer of 2014.

I underestimated what the brutal commuter's lifestyle had in store for
me.  That summer, there was a massive stretch of highway between
Schaumburg and Rockford that was being expanded, meaning most of the
drive was on a packed two lane highway at a maddening reduced speed
limit of 45 mph.  What Google Maps estimated would only be an hour in
each direction was really an hour an a half - two hours on some days.

There were lots of cops on the interstate, too.  Most drivers would do
60 on the road, slowing down for speed traps.  But sometimes a cop
would pull out and drive with everyone, meaning the entire caravan
would have to slow down to the legal 45.

I tried to make the most of it.  I woke up earlier, brought coffee
along, and had a whole queue of podcasts saved on my phone.  But the
driving was just too much for me.  There's nothing more soul crushing
than spending that much time in the car each day.  I'd have to fill up
my car with gas about every three days.  I usually wouldn't get home
until seven at night, and on top of everything, I was also
periodically driving to Wheaton to hang out with Marissa.  It was one
of the most exhausting seasons of my life.

Most dates with Marissa that summer were at the Panda Express or the
Auntie Anne's pretzel stand on the Hinsdale Oasis.  One night, on the
way back to Wheaton after hanging out at my parents' place, we sat at
a table overlooking the busy highway.

"Have you thought about getting your own place?" she asked.  "You're
so tired all the time, and you spend so much time driving."

"Why would I," I replied.  "It's hard, but it's free.  I'm saving
money.  I'll hang in there until we get married."

"You spend a lot on gas.  Have you ever checked if you're really
saving money?'

Marissa planted a seed.  And to my surprise, it turns out that I
wasn't saving money.  Tallying up my gas bill for the past month, I
found that I was practically paying for a small apartment.  My
favorite joke, "I basically live on I-90" took on a new meaning.

I had also underestimated how cheap it was to live in Rockford.  The
place we found was only $550 a month, Internet and utilities included.
I set up a tour of one of the units.  I loved how straight forward
everything was.  The apartment had a living room, a small kitchen, a
bathroom, a bedroom, and a narrow hallway connecting everything.  The
rental office was prompt and friendly.  It felt right.

"I'm finally moving to Rockford," I proudly announced at work.

"Oh nice," said my teammate, Gene.  "Where's the place?"

I dug a sticky note out of my pocket.  "It's called _Beacon Hill_."
Another coworker, Matt, swung around in his chair.

"Oh I know that place," he said, smirking.  "That's on the south side,
right?  Just a few blocks south of Sandy Hollow?"

Gene grimaced.  "That's kind of sketchy over there.  I live on the
south side, but I don't go more south than Sandy Hollow."

"I'm going to Google hit," shouted Chris from the back corner.  "Oh
boy - it says on the police scanner that there was a stabbing there
this week."

My new apartment in the scary part of town became the joke of the
day.  My coworkers casually dubbed my building _Stabby Hill_.
Returning from lunch that day, I found this sign taped to the wall of
our bullplen.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/stabbing.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment stabbing" src="/images/apartment/stabbing.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

To be honest, I didn't mind the teasing.  I was just happy that my
coworkers and I finally had something to talk about.  As a shy, newly
hired junior developer, I appreciated just finally being in on the
jokes, even if I was the butt of the joke.

And I wasn't even worried about the area's reputation for crime,
either.  My apartment was practically empty, even after my
unceremonious moving day.  In the middle of the living room, I had a
cheap monitor and desktop computer on an ikea side table.  I had an
air mattress that I borrowed from my parents.  I had a small non stick
pan, a cheap stock pot, a plastic paring knife, and a heavy German
chef's knife my dad gave me in lieu of a moving in gift.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/kitchenware.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment kitchenware" src="/images/apartment/kitchenware.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>My robust array of kitchen tools</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

That day, after work I hopped in my car, this time driving past the
familiar entrance to I-90.  I went the other direction, to my new
apartment.  It was only a fifteen minute drive.  I remember how
surreal it felt climbing the carpeted stairs to my empty sanctuary on
the third floor.  I remember a wave of giddiness and relief as my
apartment door snapped shut, my heavy work bag slinking of my shoulder
to the floor.  I was home, and for the first time in my life, I had
nobody to answer to.

I had picked up some food from Target on the way home.  For my first
meal living alone, I browned some stew meat in my stock pot, mixing it
with chopped asparagus and a pack of instant beef ramen.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/ramen.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment ramen" src="/images/apartment/ramen.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I enjoyed it standing at my bar table with a tall beer.  I think
that's the best meal I've ever eaten - forget that I probably didn't
cook the meat all the way, nor trim the asparagus.  All that matters
was that it tasted like _independence_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/independence.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment independence" src="/images/apartment/independence.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

For the first week or so, I stuck to my asparagus, meat, and ramen
combination.  To appease my keen palate, I tried to pair chicken
breast with chicken ramen, stew beef with beef ramen, and frozen
shrimp with shrimp ramen, but sometime's I would mix it up.  Some
nights, I would just stick a frozen Home Run Inn pizza in the oven and
cut it in half, saving half in tinfoil for lunch and taking the other
half over to the air mattress for dinner.

With meals, I got more daring and more creative.  On special
occasions, if I was entertaining Marissa, I'd whip up my steak
sandwich - a mess of beef, onions, and bell peppers on fried white
bed, served on an elegant pile of sweet potato fries.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/steaksandwich.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment steaksandwich" src="/images/apartment/steaksandwich.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I invited my parents over for dinner.  I made them my steak sandwich,
since that was the only actual meal I could cook.  They were amused
seeing me in my natural state, eating simple meat based meals and
drinking beer in an eerily empty apartment.  "It's so empty - you
don't even have anywhere to sit in here," they laughed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/entertaining.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment entertaining" src="/images/apartment/entertaining.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"What do you mean _empty_," I retorted.  "I've been entertaining.
Look at how homey it is in here.  I even set out the pink lawn
chairs."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/chairs.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment chairs" src="/images/apartment/chairs.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

They had a point.  I needed some chairs.  With Marissa's help, I
tracked down some bar stools on Craigslist.  I made the drive to the
west side of town, which unbeknownst to me, was even more feared than
where I lived.  I pulled my car over at the curb in front of a chain
linked fence.  There was a tough looking dude standing in the front
yard.  In one hand, he gripped a chain tied to a Rottweiler.  He
snatched the money out of my hand with his other hand.

_Gracias_, he said gruffly, motioning at the chairs laid out on his
lawn.  All things considered, it was a great deal, and they really
spruced up the place.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/bar.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment bar" src="/images/apartment/bar.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I loved having my friends from college over.  They didn't seem to mind
that my new place was practically empty and in the middle of nowhere.
It just felt cool hanging out in a real apartment with no roommates,
RA's, or college administration to answer to.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/friends.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment friends" src="/images/apartment/friends.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

And I couldn't believe how much time I had.  Going from three hours of
driving down to only twenty minutes, I practically had an extra half
day of freetime bolted on to my day.  I was sleeping more and staying
up later.  I spent many evenings falling asleep on my air mattress
slumped over my keyboard, my living room dimly lit by my single
computer screen.  Being a junior engineer, I had lots to learn, and I
was finally free to study and practice my new trade on my own.  I
learned python, django, web development, and linux server
administration.  I tinkered with cheap computers I bought off ebay or
bummed off my college's IT department.  Most of what I know today
about web development, I learned in that empty apartment.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/coding.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment coding" src="/images/apartment/coding.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Late night coding.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Summer rolled into fall, and it didn't take long for me to realize
that my heat wasn't working.  I woke up one morning seeing the fog
from my breath.  The temperature plummeted overnight and I woke up to
a frigid 58 degree apartment.

"I'm really worried," I told Marissa over the phone.  "Am I going to
be OK?  What if I like... freeze in my sleep or something?"

Marissa laughed over the phone, but tried to keep an empathetic
posture.  "Sorry I laughed, but I don't think you're going to freeze.
It's only 50 degrees outside, you're going to be fine."

Marissa and I visited family for Christmas, but after the holidays I
found myself alone again at my place.  It was new year's eve, and a
brief blizzard had just left a few feet of fresh snow on the ground.
For the first time since moving in, I decided to go for a walk around
the neighborhood.  I trudged through the unplowed parking lot and
wandered further into the neighborhood.  I walked around the block,
and decided to duck into the nearby gas station for some snacks.
That's when I had an impulse.

"Oh, and I'll have a pack of... cigarettes," I said sheepishly.

"Which kind?" asked the attendant.

"How about those - the red... _Maaar-earl-bor-os_," I said, sounding
out the name on the box that I had never before pronounced aloud.

"Not really a smoker, are you?" he smiled.

"Eh, I smoke like... a pack a year... starting tonight," I laughed.  I
trudged home with my bounty.  I remember clearing just enough snow off
my balcony so I could fit one of my pink lawn chairs through the door.
I rang in the new year that night with my first cigarette, looking out
over the snow covered parking lot.  From a distance, I could see cars
whizzing by on I-90, the same highway that once claimed so much of my
time and energy, now just a quaint addition to my view from my
fortress of solitude.

Marissa and I were married the following summer, and she joined me in
my apartment.  The transition from my empty, aescetic home to one
filled with clothes, decorations, wedding presents, and furniture was
a jarring one.  I had to actually start sleeping in the bedroom
instead of on the living room floor in front of the TV.  We set up our
computers beside each other, calling the shared table "the newly wed
battlestation."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/newlywedstation.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment newlywedstation" src="/images/apartment/newlywedstation.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Though I resisted her new frivolous additions at first, Marissa had a
good effect on the place.  Our place felt more loving and homier.
Suddenly having friends over felt more like a real social gathering
than just a rowdy dorm sleep over.  All in all, she did a great job
sprucing up the place, and I learned to trust her sense of taste.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/decorated.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment decorated" src="/images/apartment/decorated.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Not to say that _all_ her ideas were good.  I reluctantly agreed to
letting her hang our coffee mugs on the wall.  Little did I know that
her "mug wall" vision was literally just coffee mugs nailed to the
wall.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/mugwall.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment mugwall" src="/images/apartment/mugwall.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The
infamous mug wall.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

It also became a lot easier to meet people.  Marissa was bubbly,
friendly, and basically a walking ice breaker.  I began to get on
speaking terms with my neighbors and the apartment office.  There was
the couple below us - she was a nurse, and he was in welding school.
He used to lock himself out of his apartment all the time and just
resort to using the balcony.  Living on the second floor, that meant
seeing him scale the side of the wall like Spider-Man in the middle of
the day was a pretty common occurance.

There was another heavy set guy who lived on the first floor who used
to sit on his couch next to his window.  Every time we brought
Beef-a-Roo home for ourselves, without turning his head or getting up
from the couch, he would stop us in our tracks on our way into the
building.  "I smell Beef-a-Roo," he'd say through his open window.
"What did you get for me?"

"Ah dangit," joked Marissa sweetly.  "They forgot your food _again_."

And of course, our new dog Ollie was the center of our lives.  We set
him up with a pen in the corner of the living room.  Coming home from
work or running errands, we used to love watching Ollie stretch his
back and happily roll around on the carpet.  We used to catch him
sprawled out on his back on the couch, his tongue hanging out of his
mouth.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/apartment/ollie.jpg">
    <img alt="apartment ollie" src="/images/apartment/ollie.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

After a little over two years living in Rockford, I took a new job in
Madison.  Already soured to the idea of commuting, we moved out.
There were plenty of reasons to move, but it was still heart wrenching
leaving that little apartment behind.  Sometimes Marissa and I like to
stop there as we're passing through Rockford.  We eat Beef-a-Roo in
the car and stare at the balcony of our first apartment on the third
floor.  Just imagining all the moments we had in that little place is
enough to make me misty eyed.

I loved that place.  My first apartment may have been cheap, drab, and
in the rougher part of a town that was in the middle of nowhere.  But
it was special to me.  It was a place of learning, independence, and
love, and I'm thankful for every minute of it.
