---
title: balloons, breadvolution, happy hour, and creepy silence
banner: 2020-03-24.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  I'm feeling good this
morning.  I'm a little tired, but I'm still feeling healthy, and today
I'm grateful that we were spared of most of the snowfall.  Waking up
yesterday, there was some frost on the ground, but after hearing about
the several inches that accumulated in Illinois, I'm happy that was
the end of it for us in Wisconsin.

I had a great work day yesterday.  It was a busy day, but I was much
more successful with time management.  I remembered to take a break at
least once an hour to stretch and walk around.  Funny enough,
switching back to my daintier flower patterned mug helped the cause.
I have been using my Bears mug for the past few days, and I've noticed
that the mug is so big, I don't need to get up as often for coffee
refills.  That might be ideal for the weekends, where I have time to
sit on the couch and watch a late morning movie with Rodney, but for
working hours, I benefit from a smaller mug and more trips to the
coffee bar.

For lunch, I made a peanut butter and jelly sandwich for Rodney while
Marissa napped on the couch.  After heating up the last three slices
of pizza and making a little bowl of fried rice, I joined Rodney at
the table to eat.  I added a drop of ghost pepper hot sauce to my
rice, and Rodney watched in amusement as I wiped my runny nose with a
napkin.  I was hoping he'd say one of my favorite Rodney catch
phrases - _Careful dada, spicy._ - but he just smiled.

After lunch, I returned upstairs to work.  I had a busy afternoon.  At
this point in my project, now that I have drafted a proposal and
outlined the basic technical roadmap, I had to split the work up for
our team in the form of tickets.  This is a hard thing to do, and it's
often more challenging than the actual problem we're trying to solve.
Not only do the tickets have to be well-documented, containing all the
context needed to do the work, but the team needs to be able to work
on multiple tickets at a time.  So the work needs to be decoupled from
other tickets, and _parallelized_.

At three, I headed downstairs to advance my ciabatta loaf to the next
stage of its bread evolution - _breadvolution_, perhaps.  Like the
last time, it had spent all night and all morning transforming into a
fragrant, gurgling pale sponge of dough.  I gave it a few flips with a
spatula, then turned it over onto some plastic wrap.  I flattened and
stretched the dough over the plastic, taking extra care to run my
fingers underneath the dough to give it some length - a move I forgot
last time, and re-remember after watching the video again.  I set the
bread aside to proof under a towel for a few hours and returned
upstairs to work for another hour.

After work, I got Rodney out of his room.  He was waiting by the door
with his head peeking out into the hallway.  I changed his diaper, and
together we wandered into the basement to check on Marissa.  She was
trying to level a new work table for her gallery.  We chatted for a
bit, then Rodney, suddenly getting fixated on a box in the back room,
beckoned me over to him.  "C'mere dada," he said waiving his hand
insistently.  I obediently wandered over to him.

"We need the balloons," said Rodney.  "Baloooooons.  Where are you?"
I joined Rodney, scanning over the piles of boxes in the back corner
of the basement.

"Here they are!" I said, holding up a tupperware bin.  "You can
have..." I paused in deliberation.  Rodney waited in anticipation.

"... _three_ balloons."  Rodney fist pumped, and I dug out the bag for
him to choose.  The bag of spare balloons in the basement is yet
another miscellaneous item Marissa ingeniously conjured into Rodney's
reward system.  He has deep admiration and respect for the balloons.
Isn't it funny how, if you commit, you can get kids excited about
anything?  I blew up the balloons for Rodney, and he flew off, chasing
and bumping them around the basement.

Together, we headed upstairs to our room for a Zoom call with Alex and
Cassie, taking drinks with us to enjoy a virtual happy hour.  It was
good to see them, and they seemed in good spirits.  After letting
Rodney ham it up on camera with his balloons, we caught up on their
personal life.  They told us how they were adapting to quarantine
life, comparing and contrasting our new homebound daily routines.

"Things are going good," said Cassie.  "I started a puzzle!"  Her eyes
got wide, and we all laughed at the implied maddening boredom.  "How
are you guys?" she asked.

"We're doing OK," said Marissa.  "Just hanging around, trying to keep
Rodney entertained.  Oh and Alex is on a bread kick right now."

I chimed in, retelling how my first loaf turned out great, except for
when I decided to slice it in long strips.  "The sandwiches were way
too skinny," I laughed.

"It looked like a biscotti!" added Marissa.

We thanked Alex and Cassie for the time, and after hanging up, I
headed into the kitchen to make dinner.  Marissa joined me, sitting on
the counter.  After a few minutes of chatting, Ziggy found her way to
the kitchen.  She began circling the floor beneath Marissa and
whimpering.

"Do you want to go up by momma?" I said, kneeling down to pick her
up.  Ziggy wagged her tail in gratitude and curled up in Marissa's
lap.

"Look at her," said Marissa.  "You've got a plate of bacon like six
inches from her, and she's being so good up here!  Do you think she's
just trying to set a good precedent so she can lay on the counter more
often?"

I laughed at the thought.  "She's definitely smart enough to think
about the long con.  She's showing us good behavior now, but maybe
she's just waiting for something better."

"Just watch," replied Marissa.  "She's going to talk us into this
again, then managed to eat a whole chicken or something."

After eating sandwiches at the table, we took out Rodney's new domino
set.  Marissa and I built up long runs along the table, and Rodney,
leaning on his belly and stretching out, greedily knocked them with
over with his finger.  "DominoooooooOOOO," he'd sing at they tumbled
across the table.

We put Rodney to bed and spent the rest of the night catching up on
chores and working.  We caught up on TV, and before locking up for the
night, Marissa and I stood on the deck to take in the evening.

"Hear that?" I asked.  "It's completely quiet."  There were no cars on
East Washington.  The Burger King lights were turned off.

"Our backyard feels so creepy and silent right now," said Marissa.  A
train could be heard in the distance.  "Want to go inside now?" asked
Marissa squeamishly.

We've grown used to the sounds of living by a busy road - cars
whizzing by and rowdy high schoolers walking along the sidewalk.  I
wasn't prepared for the sounds to suddenly disappear.  The silence was
so ominous, it made the air feel stale and the night sky seem so much
more crushing and sad.  This quarantine is showing me how many
comforts I _really_ have in my life.

"I'm sad about the dogs," said Marissa.  "Especially Ziggy.  She seems
sad today."  I leaned forward in bed to pet her.  She sat up in bed to
cast her sad eyes in my direction.

"She definitely knows something's up," said Marissa.  "She used to
leave the house with me like five times a week.  The dogs probably
miss agility too."

I too feel sad for the dogs.  It's clear they know something's
different.  I wish there was a way for us to tell them it wouldn't
last forever.

"Let's drive somewhere tomorrow," I said.

"Want to get icecream?  Or what if we just pick up Culver's for
dinner and eat it somewhere in the car?"

"That sounds nice," I said.  I gave Ziggy a long, warm hug, then went
to sleep.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Hope you have a great day today.
