---
title: looking back on job interviews
---

## Line Dancing for a Job

Interviewing for a junior engineering position at a company, there's
not much they can actually grill you about.  The whole premise of a
junior engineer is that they _don't know anything_.  Despite all this,
I still found plenty of ways to embarrass myself at my first interview
out of college.

Wearing my only collared shirt and tie, I made the long, early morning
flight to Rockford.  Nerves got the best of me, and to deal with an
imminently dangerous bowel situation that developed on the long car
ride, I pulled over at a small diner just down the street from the
office building.  But I rallied, washing the flop-sweat off my hands
and face in the bathroom before giving the elderly owner a brief and
suspicious wave while darting out the door.

I made my way into the formless beige building, gripping my single
sheet resume between my thumb and forefinger.  The lady at the
reception desk ushered me into a back room where all the engineers
sat - the bullpen.  They led me to a smaller room in the back, and
slowly about three engineers trudged in, slumping into chairs beside
me.  The took turns carelessly glancing at my resume.  One engineer,
James, brought it closer to his face.

"It says here... you have experience _remotely managing a Java-based
game server by VNC and SSH protocol_.," said James without cracking a
smile.

"So that's just Minecraft, right?" said the other.  I nodded
nervously.  They began to chuckle.  Sensing they saw right through my
resume jargon, I started to feel self-conscious.

"We liked how you did your best to be as general as possible," he
laughed.  "It's OK - you have to start somewhere."

I was just grateful they didn't see the first draft of my resume.  At
one point my resume had a tag line, like it was a memoir or a movie
poster.  The top of the page read _An Organic Chemistry Student Bitten
by the IT Bug_.

Steve, the manager, led me around the building for a quick tour, taking
me around the broad grey walls and sea of identical cubicles.
Suddenly, music began to blare.

"So around here, we do these things called _fire drills_, just a silly
group activity to keep us motivated in the afternoon."

As the deep bass shook the walls, workers filed out of their cubicles,
lining the giant room.  A sharply dressed man turned the corner to
join us.  I recognized him as the CEO of the company I was
interviewing for.  He leaned into our conversation intensely.

"Are you going to do the fire drill with us?" asked the CEO.

"You don't _have_ to if you don't want to," said Steve.  "It's totally
OK."

"No, no, it's OK," I stammered.  "It sounds fun."  I lined up beside
some of the other workers, limping my way through an awkward line
dance.  The song ended and every one clapped.  Steve led me to the
door.

"So you definitely didn't _have_ to do that," said Steve.  "But I
think _he_ really liked it.  Positive energy is a big deal here, and I
commend you for going with the flow."

Although I would work there for two years, I never line danced again.
Like the rest of the engineers, I would just hide until the music
stopped.

## "Sorry I woke your wife"

While we were still in Rockford, I scored an interview at a place up
in Madison.  Since Marissa and I shared one car, she had to tag along
for the day.  We made the long drive from Rockford to Madison in the
morning, and after the interview, we planned on hanging out in the
afternoon, grabbing some lunch, and maybe even some beers if things
went well.

But we didn't know how long the interview would be.  And just in case
it was longer or shorter than we expected, Marissa just decided to
play it safe and wait in the car.  Additionally, she had closed at her
bar the night before and was feeling really tired.

"It'll be fine," she said.  "I just close my eyes and sleep for a
little bit.  I could use some more sleep."

We parked the car in a stealthy, inconspicuous space all the way in
the back, then I trotted into the building.  After waiting for a few
minutes in the lobby, Chris the HR Manager greeted me at the door.

"So I had a chance to meet your wife," he said as I followed him into
the back offices.  "I feel kinda bad, actually, I think I woke her
up."

I blushed with embarrassment.  Marissa filled me in later.  Chris had
knocked on the window and asked if she _was OK_, mistaking her for
some kind of homeless drifter.  He said "we don't usually have people
sleeping in the parking lot."

"She doesn't have to wait in the car, you know," he said.  "She can
absolutely wait in the lobby."

"I think she's fine," I said blankly, wanting to move past the awkward
encounter.  "She works nights as a bartender, she could probably use
the extra sleep."

Chris led me into a back room with three engineers.  By now, I had
already become familiar with the usual format.  In almost every
technical interview, there are three peoplle: an assertive manager
that does most of the talking, a laid back engineer that just cracks
jokes, and a scary looking senior architect says nothing.

They had a brief coding test for me.  Using a shared JavaScript
console on the projector, I had to write a function that would check a
password parameter against some silly validation rules.

"The password has to be at least 10 characters long, it can't have the
string SANDWICH in it, and it cannot be a palindrome," explained the
manager.

Hearing the easy question aloud, I felt a wave of relief wash over me.
I took a deep breath to keep my hands from shaking, then I approached
the keyboard.  Over the next ten minutes, I hammered out a function,
running the final result.

I felt pretty good about my solution.  I tested it as I went, I used
descriptive names, and the last line of my function was a single,
concise statement that coalesced all the conditions we checked for.
In computer English, it would have read _return password
is-long-enough AND is-not-sandwhich AND is-not-palindrome_.

The manager leaned back in his chair, rubbing his chin.  "Is this the
best way to do this, though?" he asked.  "Are there any places we
could make it faster."

My eyes scanned my code on the bright projector screen.  I had the
sense that he was trying to lead me somewhere, but I wasn't sure what
he noticed.

"Well," he continued.  "Say if one of those checks was a little
longer, like it had to query a database, or fetch something from a
URL.  Maybe it failed the first condition already and you wouldn't
need to have done that?"

His question hung in the air like a fart.  All at once, I realized
what he thought he saw, and why he was wrong.  But I was at a loss for
words, trying to find a tactful way of saying it.

"I think I know what you mean," I stuttered.  "But the conditions get
resolved from left to right, the browser won't run the others if it
knows it's already false."

Trying to balance humility with confidence, grace with precision.  My
contribution to the discussion only made things feel weirder.  The
conversation felt like things were about to get defensive.

A voice rang in the back of the room.  It was the senior architect,
who had been silent until just then.  "This is a bad example," he said
gruffly.  "Let's move on."

## "You think we're NASA?"

I interviewed at the space science center here in Madison.  They were
looking for a python programmer to join their team, which was
responsible for maintaining the code that ingested data collected from
satellites and weather balloons.  They provided weather science data
to governments, research groups, and most impressively, NASA.

Before the actual interview, I had to solve and submit a take home
assignment.  As part of the test, I had to write a program that would
clone a file tree to another root, replacing all duplicate files with
hard links along the way.  There was no "trick" to it, as far as I
could tell.  It was just a hard problem, and I used all 90 minutes of
my submission window down to the last second to get something working.
But I got a call back, and that gave me a boost of confidence.

Marissa dropped me off outside the tall brown building.  It had a
giant angled radar dish on the roof.  I was escorted to the back of a
public library, where I met with two shabby, regular looking guys that
made up the python team.  We chatted, joked, and hit it off well,
until their manager joined the discussion.  He was much more polite,
well dressed, and his British accent was so refined, it sounded like
he was reciting a sonnet when he talked.

"So tell us, in short, why you want to work with the space science
research center," he asked, folding his legs.

For as basic of a question that was, it remained a gaping blind spot
in my interview preparation.  Truthfully, I didn't even understand
what they did.

"Science excites me," I opened.  "I have a science background myself,
and I would love a job that lets me return to some of that."  The
manager shifted uncomfortably.

"Well, I'll stop you there," he said, holding out his hand politely.
"We have _enough_ scientists.  We're mainly interested in
programmers."

"Oh, I know," I stammered.  "I mean I like science, but I'm really
here to program... to be a programmer."

Their smiles faded to bleak, blank stares.  I tried to save my answer.

"And NASA - I mean... c'mon," I chuckled.  "That's so cool - working
with NASA has always been a dream of mine."

One of the programmers smiled.  "Do you think we're NASA?" he asked.

"Oh, we just _work_ with NASA," said the manager.  "They help fund our
department, and we let them use our data."

I would receive a polite rejection email the next Monday.  I'd imagine
the manager was tempted to add, "and next time, you should figure out
exactly who you're applying to work for."

## "Just Guess."

I interviewed with a remote company based in Michigan that made
medical software.  Sitting in our bedroom, I logged onto Skype for the
remote technical screen.  There were about twelve other people listed
in the chat room, and nobody had their webcams turned on.  So I turned
my camera off.

The hiring manager on the call gave his opening spiel, but I could
barely hear him over the sound of eleven other swarthy engineers
breathing directly into my headphones.

"So we have some technical questions we'd like to ask you," he said,
beginning to read.  "First question: if you were making a word
processor, how would you implement an _undo_ feature?"

I stared at my keyboard.  "Let's see," I said, my voice trailing off.
I really had no idea, but I just wanted to let them know I was
thinking about it.  "I don't know," I said.  "Sounds like a tricky
problem that I've never had to solve before."

"Just guess," said the manager stubbornly.

"I'm sorry, guys.  I'm drawing a blank here," I said.  "We can just go
onto the next question."

I heard ruffling papers on the other end, along with the same
anonymous symphony of nasal breathing.

"OK, I have a scenario for you, Alex," said the manager.  "You are
leading a team that has to make a product kind of like photo shop.
Only the computer your writing it for has no disk storage, and very
little RAM.  Given these constraints, what strategy of memory
management would still allow you to implement _gaussian blur_."

"What is gaussian blur?" I asked.  I heard fidgeting on the other end.

"You don't know what gaussian blur is?" said a new voice.  He sounded
eager to explain it, so I humored him, but the engineer's cheap
microphone kept cutting in and out."

"I don't know that one either, guys," I said.

"Can you just guess?" said the manager.  "Just guess how you would
implement gaussian blur."

"I don't know how I would even guess.  I don't know what gaussian blur
is," I said, feeling irritated.

"Should I read the definition again?" asked the engineer from before.

I took a long paused, rubbing my eyes.  The breathing grew louder in
my headphones, and I was suddenly overcome with an awful sensation of
claustrophobia.  Without thinking, I reached for my laptop lid and
shut it closed, ending the call.  No warning.  No farewell.  I just
shut it off.

"You what?!" exclaimed Marissa in the kitchen.

"I just shut my laptop," I said, still laughing hysterically.
"They're questions we're just so ridiculous.  And... you
know... enough was enough."

My favorite part about this story was that they still took the time to
write me a formal rejection email, and they even made it sound like it
was a close decision.

## "Is there someone with you?"

At Zendesk, I discovered my deep appreciation and respect for the
interview process, and I happily volunteered to conduct technical
screens and code challenges.  I pride myself on asking good questions,
being friendly, and ensuring that every candidate we interview feels
respected, even if we pass on them.

Usually I start with a short answer quiz, just to find out where most
of their experience is.  I was interviewing a guy over Zoom, and based
on the long pauses and robotic responses, I could tell he was just
punching in my questions into google and reading the search first
result, as if it were his own.  I acted like I didn't notice and
proceeded to my coding question.

I read the problem statement, pasting in my question into our shared
coding window.  I explained the constraints, the rules, and the
expectations.  But while I was in the middle of giving my spiel, he
interrupted me.

"Ope - sorry, did you say something?" I interjected.  Just silence.

"OK then, so off you go," I said, giving the candidate time to work.
As he fumbled around the screen pasting random snippets from
StackOverflow, I could hear him muttering to himself.

"Did you say something?" I asked again.

"Oh... no, nothing, don't worry about it ," he said dismissively.  I
heard more chatter through his headphones.  I realized there was
someone in the room with him.  The candidate was covering his
microphone, discussing the problem with someone else.

I took a deep breath and leaned in.  "Sorry - I hate to ask",
but... is there someone working on this with you?"

"Yes," he sighed.

I went on to explain that he was instructed to take the test alone and
that since he tried to sneak help from a buddy, I'd have to disqualify
him.  None of this surprised him.  Even though the candidate had his
video turned off, I could hear that he was embarrassed at how I caught
him cheating.

"I'll tell you what though, why don't the three of us just work on it
together," I suggested.

I introduced myself to his friend, who turned out to be a classmate at
his technical college.  He explained that they work on all their
homework assignments together, and it felt so natural that the fact it
was against the rules in a job interview just slipped his mind.

"Well, even if the interview didn't go so well, I still had fun," I
said, trying to end on a good note.

"We had fun too," said the candidate.  "Thanks for being
understanding, and sorry again."
