---
title: spark notes, hide and seek, and pokey bread
banner: 2020-11-16.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  It feels good to be here, and
even though I'm feeling a little groggy this morning, it feels good to
be caught up on sleep and heading into a new work week with a clear
head.  Sitting down at the computer just now I had the realization
that Thanksgiving is next week, so if you too have lost track of how
far into November we are, there's your warning shot.  If you have
aspirations to do something fancy with a turkey, it might be a good
week to start thinking about it.

Speaking of which, what's the deal with Thanksgiving only being a week
away?  The more terrifying reality is that we're officially beginning
the holiday season.  Waiting around the house in an enduring
quarantine, I would have thought this part would take longer.  But
here we are.

I have a lot of work to catch up on.  And knowing I have some holidays
around the corner is going to help me find the extra push to get it
done.  We have an intern project to kick-off.  I have a bevvy of slack
messages to reply to this morning.  And on top of it all, we have our
first book club meeting at work, and I have yet to begin the reading
assignment.  It's not often you get to say _I have yet to begin the
reading assignment_, is it?  I feel like a disheveled high school
student, and much like I used to do in high school I'll either have to
find a quiet corner to power skim the first chapter or just see if I
can track down the spark notes.  It's been a while - _spark notes_ are
still a thing, aren't they?

_Sip_.  When was the last time you had to look up the spark notes for
something you didn't read?  And more importantly how was your weekend?

I had a nice long weekend.  Even though the art show wasn't quite what
we expected, plenty of good still came out of the effort.  Marissa has
a clean studio and a big empty table on which to start something new.
I got to enjoy a few days off work.  And while Marissa was waiting
around for her paintings to sell, we had plenty of time as a family to
hone our new favorite craft: hide and seek.

Hide and seek, the _de facto_ choice for how Rodney delegates his
precious minutes of _Rodney Time_, is becoming a real passion of ours.
We have a great house for hide and seek, too.  The doors, halls, and
stairs leading from the kitchen to the dining room to the living room
to the upstairs form a single continuous spiral.  We have deep
closets, thick curtains, and dark corners.  Our old wooden stairs
creek, adding an extra challenge to hiding.

Rodney is under the impression that before each round begins, everyone
needs to be in agreement as to where each player is hiding.  Before
sending Marissa off to count, he initiated a huddle in the living
room.

"OK, Dada, you come with me," said Rodney out of breath.  "We'll hide
in the closet with _Hauncy_, and Momma - you come find us."

Rodney's natural command over hide and seek has surfaced some amusing
new vocabulary.  While explaining the rules to us, he kept repeating
the phrase _the goal is_.

While playing, I found a good spot in Rodney's room.  I couldn't quite
fit under his narrow bed, so I instead balled myself up in the corner
by his bookshelf, throwing his blanket over me.  Cleverly disguised as
a balled up blanket thrown aside, Rodney went in and out of his room
twice without noticing.  He even absent-mindedly and unwittingly
patted me on the butt.

When we weren't playing hide and seek, Rodney and I were sword
fighting.  Spending almost all late Sunday morning swinging our light
sabers at each other, I was grateful Rodney wanted to take a break and
build a blanket fort instead.  We mounded the blankets in the middle
of the room, watching cooking videos while the dogs curiously circled
us.

For dinner, we had a pizza themed menu all weekend.  On Saturday I
made two thin crusts pizzas, and last night we used the rest of the
sauce to make calzones.  Rodney joined me in the kitchen to play with
a spare notch of pizza dough.  With focus and poise, he lovingly
punched, floured, and stabbed his weird little mound of dough with the
pride of a craftsman.  Together we came up with the name _pokey dough_
for Rodney's specialty.

His final product looked like a flying saucer with a perfectly round
ball resting on top.  I obediently brushed his creation with egg wash
and baked it next to our calzones, serving it with dinner as a
deconstructed side dish.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-11-16-pokey-bread.jpg">
<img alt="2020 11 16 pokey bread" src="/images/2020-11-16-pokey-bread.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Rodney expertly crafts pokey bread from dried out pizza dough.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

"So this is _pokey bread_, Momma," I said.  "Rodney worked really hard
on it.  Dude, why don't you tell us a little bit about it, and show us
how to enjoy it."

Rodney smiled, plugging the round dough ball off the top with his
hand, nibbling a soft piece off the bottom.  He placed the ball, now
wet with saliva, back on top.

"Oh interesting," I said.  "So we take turns just eating small nibbles
off the top."

After putting Rodney to bed, we opened a bottle of wine and started a
movie.  Last night's pick was _Silver Linings Playbook_.  The movie is
energetic, upbeat, and well-acted.

So that's what I got today.  Here's to the last week before we head
into the holidays.  Heck - while we're at it, we can probably just
call this the last regular week of 2020.  Let's attack this week
ferociously.  A mere five day work week stands between us and paid
time off, weekend naps, and turkey.

Thanks for stopping by today, everyone.  Have a great Monday.
