---
title: chicken dishes and getting smooshed by christmas
banner: 2020-11-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everyone! Hope your Sunday is going well.  Time to pour
a drink and cling to the last few precious hours of the weekend.  But
first, time to update the old blog.

Speaking of drinking, tonight's beverage is a white wine I nabbed from
Hy-Vee while making our thoroughly premeditated Thanksgiving week
grocery run.  Our fourteen pound bird is safely nestled into his
temporary spot in the back of our fridge.  I spent pretty much the
whole afternoon cleaning out the fridge and cleaning vegetables for
the big day this week, leading right up to dinner.

Tonight's dinner was an interesting French dish called [Chicken Gaston
Gerard].  The recipe began with a whole chicken cut up into chunks. I
lightly browned the chicken in butter and oil over medium heat, then
shut the lid for forty minutes.  The cool part of the recipe was how
it cleverly utilized the _whole_ chicken - the carcass sits on the bottom
of the pot while the other pieces sweat out the juices, which get
turned into the most wild sauce you could ever imagine.

Blast the heat.  Add 100 grams of shredded gruyere to the boiling
chicken juices.  Add a whole glass of white wine, cream, and finally a
squirt of mustard before broiling it with cheese and bread crumbs.

Being my first time with the dish, I had some execution problems.
Things started to go off the rails when I removed the lid from the
Dutch oven forty minutes later and discovered that my stove wasn't
nearly hot enough.  I rushed the rest of the recipe, adding in the
cheese before the broth was hot enough.  A ball of rubbery grey
protein wadded up at the end of my whisk.

"Look at this," I said to Marissa, retrieving the mass from the pot.
"I think this is literally just cheese with all the fat taken out.  If
I didn't know any better I would think it was just a piece of
chicken."

Marissa tried to act amused, but the queasy look in her face betrayed
her.  "I don't like it," she said, quietly retching to herself.

"I should have guessed you wouldn't think that was cool.  I'll go show
Rodney."  Rodney took hold of the congealed mass and started to bounce
it on the kitchen table like a bouncy ball.

[Chicken Gaston Gerard]: https://youtu.be/bFHe6hpoQGM

_Sip_.  It's been a great weekend.  The weather has been warm enough
to go for walks outside, and yet somehow also cold enough to enjoy hot
chocolate spiked with brandy.  Each of us is starting to show our
Christmas spirit in our own special way.  For Rodney, that means
bogarting our nightly story time to lead aimless, abstract discussions
about Christmas.

"Oh I know," said Rodney sitting up in bed.  "Let's talk about
Christmas."  I liked how he went through the trouble of acting like
Christmas just happened to pop into his head.  We both know Christmas
is always on his mind, and the more he can talk about it, the more he
can stave off his imminent bedtime.  On this particular night, I felt
like indulging him.

"OK," I said, taking a seat next to him on the bed.  "Tell me about
Christmas.  What do you got?"

Rodney leaned in like he was divulging a dangerous secret.  "Christmas
is coming soon," he said.

"I know dude," I said.  "It's like next month."

Rodney shook his head.  "I show you," he said, spinning on his butt to
face his pillow.  He planted his left hand down on the bed.

"This is our house," he said.  Rodney turned and planted his other
hand on the bed on the other side of his pillow.  "And this is
Christmas.  It's coming... _really slowly_..."

Rodney began to draw his right hand closer to his left.  "And then
SUDDENLY, it's here."  His hands mere inches apart, he craned his neck
towards me to make sure I was tracking with the explanation.

"Oh I get it," I said.  I raised my hands to match his.  "And then
when Christmas is here... _clap_."

Rodney looked horrified.  "No no no," he scolded.  "It comes here."
He spaced my hands apart.  "Christmas comes slowly and slowly until it
gets to our front yard, and then it stops."

I broke out in laughter.  All at once I realized what Rodney was
getting at.  To Rodney, the expression _Christmas is coming_ had
nothing to do with time.  To him, Christmas was a physical object that
was traveling to our house.

"It can't _hit_ us, because our house would get _smooshed_," said
Rodney gravely.  "The walls would get _smooshed_.  My toys would get
_smooshed_.  Baby Miles would get _smooshed_.  Everything!  Everything
would get _smooshed_."

"I got it," I said.  "So Christmas is coming, but it's just going to
stop in our front yard?"

Rodney finally nodded in approval, satisfied that his lesson had
finally stuck.

You have to admit that Rodney's understanding of Christmas captures an
imminence lost in the usual cliches.  Like Rodney, I think I prefer to
also think of Christmas as something barreling towards us.  It makes
me picture Santa sleigh careening through side streets, smashing
mailboxes and side swiping cars.  Indeed, Christmas is almost hear,
and you best pray that when it gets here it doesn't _smoosh_ you.

I really related to that this weekend.  Sitting down at the computer
last night, I began to organize a TODO list around all the things I'd
like to do this holiday.  Thanksgiving dinner, Christmas cards,
Christmas presents, Secret Santa gift exchanges, virtual get
together's, and most important of all, I have to begin my careful
curation process for my yearly hip-hop mixtape.  Things are about to
get serious.  This weekend has been like my last water break before
re-joining the race and powering through to the finish line.

At least the holidays are a good kind of busy, aren't they?  It's been
such a quiet year, and I'm in a place where I just feel like doing
things with people.  Even doing something as boring as standing in
line at Hy-Vee waiting for a register to open, I just felt so
stimulating to be around people.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Sunday, everyone.  See ya
tomorrow.
