---
title: pizza drama, rock pavers, and krang bread
banner: 2020-06-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone, and a happy Sunday to you.  To set the scene
here, our entire family has settled in, on, or around the couch in the
living room - or as you might say in Dutch, _de bank in de woonkamer_.
And for a free interesting Dutch tidbit - the word for _couch_ is the
same word for _bank_, which is just _bank_.

In hopes of snapping Rodney out of his YouTube video rutt, I dropped
the hammer this morning and dictated that he has to watch at least an
hour of Veggie Tales before returning to his beguiled orange and blue
master, of whom we try not to speak his name more than we have to.

I was hoping to make crepes this morning.  But to my disappointment,
we didn't have quite enough milk in the house to satisfy the crepe
batter recipe I found.  So I instead resorted to our family's Sunday
morning standby - French toast.  But rest assured, I've got crepes on
my radar, and I'm eager to add skinny pancakes to our breakfast menu.

As I write, Marissa was catching me up on some drama happening in a
nearby pizza place.  This pizza place, which used to be a regular
dining choice for our family, allegedly had an employee test positive
for COVID-19, but failed to disclose it to anyone until a week of
regular operation had passed.  If you visit their webpage, it only
says they're closing early to _give their awesome staff a well
deserved break_, but the unverified Facebook whistleblower certainly
gives an interesting backdrop to the seemingly innocuous hiatus.

We're not to worried about it.  We actually haven't eaten there since
the stay at home order started.  Being limited to take out, our family
has been forced to see our usual set of favorite restaurants for what
they are - decent beer, and walking distance to our house - none of
which really count for anything in quarantined world.

"They're food was never really good," I added after Marissa stopped
reading.  "But if you're food isn't good _and_ your management is this
toxic?"

"Yeah, I always got the sense that the staff was really frustrated
with management.  I think they had a lot of problems."

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a good day.  After lunch, we all headed outside
to begin our work day.  With Marissa acting as our site foreman, she
directed Rodney and I in moving the rocks off a strip of dirt beside
our driveway and digging a small trench so she could lay down new
stone pavers.  Afterwards, we'd rinse off the rocks with a hose and
shovel them back in.

And even though there was plenty to do, it didn't take long for the
work day to become a _play-in-the-hose_ day for Rodney.  He shook his
sandals off to the side, picked up the hose, and sprayed it directly
into his face.  His yelling was drowned out by the sharp spray of
water, but I felt lucky to be close enough to hear what he was
screaming.

"THIS FEELS SO GOOD!  I LOVE WATER!"

Leaving the hose running on the pavement, he flopped on his belly, and
putting his mouth to the ground he took a few sips out of a puddle.

"RODNEY," Marissa yelled.  "No drinking the water."

"Just a little bit?  Just my lip?" Rodney contested, pointing to his
face.

"No, Rodney.  Not just a little bit.  No drinking water off the
ground," I scolded.  Rodney pouted for a few moments, staring
wistfully into the dirty puddle which he so desired.  But then he
remembered he had free access to a hose, and returned to spraying
himself in the face over his own battle cry.

Meanwhile, Marissa rinsed rocks and laid pavers while I dug a trench.
We had trouble finding an efficient way to clean the rocks without
leaving a big muddy mess.

"The best way I've found so far is just doing a handful at a time,"
said Marissa, hunched over a mount of pebbbles.

"But that's going to take forever," I replied.  Marissa shrugged.

We tried flattening the rocks into a pile, rinsing portions at a
time, rinsing them over a shovel, rinsing them over a rake.  But each
variation of the same chore proved messier and less effective than the
last.

"OK, so far, your handful method is the best," I laughed.  "I'm not
going to stress about it.  As long as what we do today is better than
how it was before, it's still worth it."

We rinsed Rodney off in the driveway then sent him upstairs for a nap.
Marissa and I finished the project, then ordered a pizza from our
_new_ favorite Madison pizza place.  After dinner, we all took a walk
to the neighborhood liquor store.  As we struggled to untangle the dog
leashes from the stroller, Rodney took Ollie's lead in his hand.

"Momma," he asked.  "I hold Ollie?"  Marissa looked hesitant.

"It's Ollie," I said turning to her.  "He's not going anywhere.  This
is good practice."  Ollie smiled up at Marissa, almost as if he was
offering his approval.

"OK," she said.  "But just until we get to the busy road, then I'm
taking over.

Rodney ran ahead of the pack, with a very composed Ollie jogging
behind him.  "It looks like Ollie is walking Rodney," I laughed.

Marissa picked up some beer and loaded it into the stroller, then we
made our way home.  After putting Rodney to bed, we treated ourselves
to a luxurious snack of buttered sourdough bread and beer fit for our
arduous work day.

But we were not just celebrating finishing the rock paver project.
We were also taking the maiden voyage of our family's new standard
issue sourdough sandwich bread - or what we refer to simply as _Krang
Bread_.

The goal of Krang Bread was to make a simple, reliable, repeatable,
no-fuss all purpose sandwich bread.  Krang Bread should be practical,
good enough to make crispy toast, a soft PB & J, but it should still
be appetizing enough to eat with just a swipe of butter with your
dinner.

And at last, after a long research and development processes tweaking
hydration, inoculation, bulk rise duration and oven temperature, we
think we've arrived at the perfect recipe.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/krang-bread.jpg">
    <img alt="krang bread" src="/images/krang-bread.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Krang Bread.  Enjoy it for anything, as long as it's with a beer.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Be on the lookout for my recipe Krang Bread - I'll publish it later
today on the [Recker Family Cookbook].  Thanks for stopping by today.

[Recker Family Cookbook]: https://cookbook.reckerfamily.com
