---
title: emails, slip n slides, and getting my ass kicked by a frozen chicken
banner: 2020-08-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  It's an honor to be here
alongside you in an actual work week for a change.  I've got a fresh
outfit on.  I'm enjoying the first few sips of a fresh, piping hot pot
of coffee - I'm right where I'm supposed to be.

The plan this morning was to wake up early, catch up on dishes,
shower, and with some coffee, perhaps stand out on the deck for a
moment of reflection about the summer before jumping into work again.
If it were a movie, what I was picturing this morning would have been
scored by something orchestral from Hans Zimmer.  A dramatic montage
of me doing yoga outside, like Tom Cruise in the Last Samurai.  Maybe
even throw in a gleaming sunrise if it didn't look too contrived.

But I didn't get the long, thoughtful montage of reflection out on the
deck this morning.  My head shot up almost an hour and a half after my
alarm allegedly went off.  I woke up to a suspiciously bright bedroom.
I greeted the day with a gruff string of cuss words as I sprang to my
tired feet.

And so the work week begins like a comedy.  I'm the disheveled
protagonist, bouncing around the house in the morning to... I don't
know... yakkity sax or something.  Brewing coffee with one hand,
feeding the dogs with the other, and I spent as much time in the
shower as I would running through a sprinkler outside.

I would have liked to have more time this morning, but it's not so
bad.  Once I sit down at my computer, the morning routine is a distant
memory.

_Sip_.  I kicked off yesterday by cleaning up my upstairs office.
Sweeping under the chairs, wiping off my desk with Windex, cleaning my
monitor with a little alcohol rag.  It was like therapy for my soul.

"Did you... clean this chair?" said Marissa sitting down in her usual
spot in the corner.

"No - I just cleaned everything around it.  And it must have rubbed
off on the chair," I replied.

My fancy new pair of noise cancelling headphones completes the remote
worker paradise.  I booted up my sleepy work computer and put on some
gospel music, then got to work updating software and taking my
calendar off of vacation mode.  The big project of the morning was
going through my email.

I had about five hundred unread messages waiting in my inbox.  It's
not like I was going to sit there and actually read all of them - work
email doesn't work that way.  Plus, after three months of leave, most
of it wasn't applicable to me anymore.  I missed the remote tech
summit we held this summer, there were boatloads of announcements
about the shift to mandatory remote work for the rest of the year, and
everything after that was just spam from Thousand Eyes (Thousand Eyes?
More like a _Thousand Emails_).

Having such a full mailbox proved to be a great testing ground to
spruce of my gmail filters.  In less than an hour, once again I had
gmail the way I liked it - everything read and archived - a completely
uncomfortable white screen.

We ate some lunch, and I returned to my computer to keep chipping away
at my TODO list.  With my email and calendar set up again, I was off
and running on the fun, less important part of my list, updating some
of my personal scripts and cleaning up configs.

Out our bedroom window, I could hear Marissa and Rodney laughing in
the front yard.  Marissa had set up the slip 'n slide for Rodney, and
the giggles creeping in through the window must have meant that he was
getting the hang of it.  I took a coffee break on the front porch and
asked for a demonstration.

Rodney fastened his lizard goggles over his face, his eyes obscured by
murky yellow lenses.  He took a few steps back and flopped on his
belly, army crawling down the length of the slip and slide.  Marissa
shrugged.

"Rodney, let's show him the other game he made up," said Marissa.
Marissa took a power stance and flexed.  "I'm... THE LIZZARD" the
screeched.  Rodney swiftly dodged an attack, rolling between her legs
in the last moment.

"I feel a little jealous," I laughed.  "It's like I had to go back to
school while all my friends are still on summer vacation."

Marissa was handling the return to full time Rodney duty gracefully.
Breaking out a slip 'n slide on a Monday morning was ambitious, but
not without reward.  Rodney would be zapped the rest of the day,
taking a long nap and biding his time before dinner with some quiet
video games.

"Don't laugh, but I'm really sore too," said Marissa.  "I don't think
this slip and slide was made for adults.  That thing hurts."

At quitting time, I locked my laptop and headed downstairs to start on
dinner.  I had a chicken thawing in the basement sink all afternoon,
planning to roast it in the oven with potatoes and onions.  And just
because I was feeling cocky, I sliced up the rest of our zucchini and
Brussels sprouts too.

The trouble started after I took the chicken out of the plastic.  The
inside was still a frozen, but since I could pull the legs apart wide
enough to stuff (and visually confirm that there wasn't any plastic
inside), I decided to press on.  I stuffed the bird with shallots,
parsley, and garlic cloves, and trussed it on my cutting board.

"Four hundred degrees for fifty minutes," I said thinking aloud.  "How
about... let's do four twenty... for an hour."  I had to make up for
the still frozen center, after all.

An hour passed.  The oven timer rang.  I cracked open the oven door to
check how things were progressing.  The chicken had started to brown
on top, but the vegetables were still ghostly white.  I checked the
temperature, and as soon as my thermometer broke the thigh, it gushed
dark red.  _Crap_.

I walked a lap around the kitchen and took a deep breath.  "Don't
worry about it," I said quietly.  "It's only seven.  Give it another
half hour and set out some bread."

I slid the tray back into the oven and joined Rodney on the computer,
who was absent-mindedly clicking around the Nick Jr. website.

"Whatcha watching, dude?" I asked.

"Oh, hi dada," he said.  I handed Rodney a piece of buttered bread.
"Thanks," he said placing it beside the keyboard.

The oven timer rang.  The chicken was darker, but the vegetables were
still undercooked.  The temperature of the bird told me we still had a
way to go.  I started to get frustrated.

"Calm down," I told myself.  "It's only 7:30.  We can eat at 8 - it's
no big deal."

Using my biggest knife, I cut the back out of the bird to split it
open, hoping to speed up the cooking.  Hidden in the center of its
chest cavity was a round little ice cube shaped like a rib cage.  That
explained why the vegetables were taking their time - they were
practically sitting in an ice bath.  I sighed, throwing the ice cube
into the garbage.

I removed the chicken and tried to broil the vegetables dry.  I ended
up just finishing the chicken in the microwave.  While getting the
plates out, Marissa began to tee up a joke, but I gruffly cut it
short.

"I don't want to joke about this right now," I said before slumping
into my seat.

After about fifteen minutes picking at microwaved chicken and grey
vegetables in silence, I willed myself out of my dark place.

"I'm disappointed I didn't just throw all of this away earlier.  I
could have saved us a lot of time and cleanup if we just ordered a
pizza or something."

"It's OK," said Marissa.  "I think it actually tastes pretty good."

Rodney took a bite of his food, and in a sudden panic started to fan
his mouth.  "WOW SO spicy," he said taking a swig of milk with his
mouth full.  I held out my hand, into which he spit a full clove of
grey garlic.

"What was your joke?" I asked.

"What?" said Marissa.

"The joke you were going to tell?"

"Ah," said Marissa, gathering herself.  "_You know Pam, in Spain they
often don't even start eating until midnight_."

I cracked a smile.  "That's funny.  Sorry for being an ass."

So sleeping through my alarm this morning after getting my ass kicked
by a frozen chicken the night before - not the way I would have wanted
to start off my first work week.  But that's what I'm working with
today.  I'm still right where I'm supposed to be.

Have a great day everyone.
