---
title: american psycho, super hero poses, and network outages
banner: 2020-06-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday.  This morning, I hope you have
some place warm to drink coffee and wait out this drizzly morning, and
that you have something _lekker_ to snack on too.

To set the scene here, Rodney is still in his pajamas watching Blippi
on the dining room computer.  I'm set up on the couch with my
keyboard, laptop and notebook, and Marissa holding Miles on the chair
while the dogs hungrily stare at her bowl of dry Frosted Flakes.

I gave myself plenty of extra time this morning to wind up for the
day.  I even moved my alarm forward an hour last night.  Perhaps
against our better judgment, Marissa and I stayed up late last night
to finish my movie pick, _American Psycho_.  If you've ever seen the
movie, you might understand why we had a tough time finding a
satisfying stopping point, and why he had plenty to talk about when we
were finished.

"So I had seen this movie once before," I began as the credits rolled,
"but my take on it was that the movie is supposed to be a critique of
the white, wealthy American lifestyle.  The surrounding characters are
so shallow, self obsessed, and apathetic about everything that it
borders on psychopathy.  An _actual_ psychopath like Bateman would go
unnoticed."

"Huh," Marissa emoted while scratching her chin.  "I came away with
the complete opposite.  My take away was that he didn't actually kill
any of those people, and that it was all just a fantasy."

We spent a few minutes in our dimly lit living room toying around with
each interpretation of the film.  On one hand, my interpretation was
very satisfying.  Each person in the film that could have caught
Bateman in the act seemed to make a conscious decision to ignore what
he was doing.  We presume that the realtor seen selling Paul Allen's
apartment was too worried about the property value of the prime
Central park side location to report the murders.  The detective is
easy on Batemen when he questions him, inserting his own doubt and
biases into the investigation with things like "he'll probably turn
up".  Batemen's own lawyer, with whom he left a rambling confession,
mistakes him for someone else, and refuses to believe that Paul
Mitchell is even dead.  Throughout the film, people refer to him as
the wrong name and are constantly distorting the truth.  Bateman, who
is well aware that he is slipping into madness, finds that his friends
and coworkers are so superficial and monstrous that he doesn't need to
hide anything.  Nobody cares about truth or human life anyway.

But on the other hand, Marissa's theory has legs as well.  Throughout
the film, people refer to Bateman as _spineless_, which seems to fly
in the face of how he is presented in the movie.  There is a scene in
which one of his victims kicks him in the face while escaping, and yet
he shows know signs of bruising or injury.  There is the scene at the
end where Batement completely unwinds, and police cars seemingly
explode and let him pass with very little effort, like he's walking
through a cheesy action movie.

And most compelling of all, in the scene where Batemen contemplates
strangling his friend, Bateman's hands are shaking.  "Isn't that
weird," asked Marissa.  "In all the other murders, he's smooth and
confident about it.  I think that's because they were just fantasy.
It shows how weak and disturbed he really is."

And the fact that both theories can be supported by the film and they
each have such a poignant moral speaks to how good the movie is.

We did some googling before finally heading up to bed.  "Whether you
think the murders happened and the film is a comment on shallow,
wealthy lifestyle," Marissa read, "or you think it was all Bateman's
fantasy, the film ought to be enjoyed like a snake in a glass box."

"A snake in a glass box," I repeated.  "I like that analogy."

I didn't intend to turn over half of this entry into a film review.
Sorry that I got a little carried away.  Movies are a great way to
pass the time these days, and we've seen some good ones lately.  How
about we change gears and head back to the real world?

_Sip_.  In the morning while I was finishing up my journal entry,
Rodney was heckling me from across the hallway in his bedroom.  Being
able to see my screen from his bedroom, he must have saw me searching
through pictures for the day's journal entry image.

"Hey, that's me!" he yelled from the across the hallway.  A few hours
later, he ran into the kitchen while I was cleaning up and getting
ready to make lunch.  He had colored his face, hands, and legs with
marker.

"OK, dad," he said.  "Now you take a picture of me, and put it on the
computer."  Rodney squatted and flexed his arms, cycling through a
number of improvised super hero poses.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/photo-shoot.jpg">
    <img alt="photo shoot" src="/images/photo-shoot.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>I've been instructed to show you all this awesome super hero pose.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

In other news, we had quite a bit of excitement in the homelab
yesterday.  As I was lazily watching YouTube on the couch with Miles
on my chest, our video froze.  I also noticed that my phone lost Wifi
connection as well.

"Failure to obtain an IP address..." I read aloud off my phone screen.
"Looks like a fun one."  I sighed, climbing off the couch to put Miles
in his crib.

Pretty much the entirety of our home network is located on my server
wall, a mild mess of wrapped ethernet cables, exposed motherboards,
stacks of hard drives, and whirring plastic fans.  One of my favorite
things about our bedroom is that my desk is close enough to
temporarily plug any of my servers into my monitor using a long VGA
cable.  I wired up my router and rebooted the box, watching the pale
text flicker down the screen.  Rodney's thunderous footsteps could be
heard as he ran up the stairs and into our room.

"What you doing dad?"  Rodney asked.

"I'm fixing something," I said gruffly, typing with my keyboard
resting on shelf.  "Hey dude, would you mind going downstairs?  I need
to focus on this."

It appears that, for a still unknown reason, my DHCP software crashed,
causing my router to stop handing out IP addresses to all devices in
the house.  I must have finally noticed when our TV's IP address
expired and it could get a new one.  As I wandered around the console,
I noticed that I had a lot of pending software updates - some of them
were patches to the dhcp software.

"I wonder if I could just upgrade through it," I muttered.  Minutes
later, when the upgrade finished, my router rebooted and greeted me
with the cheery, electronic pfsense jingle.  My access point flipped
from red to green.  Victory.

"Everything alright up there?" asked Marissa.  "Rodney came back
downstairs and told me you were fixing a cable."

"Something like that," I laughed.  "Just a brief network outage."

We ate dinner at the biergarten with Alex and Cassie.  We ordered two
separate pizzas, sitting on two separate blankets six feet from each
other in the grass.  It was both weird and wonderful seeing them in
person.

"I feel so uplifted from that," said Marissa as we were leaving.
"They're wonderful people."

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
