---
title: an evening walk, chili, and piano lessons
banner: 2020-10-06.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  I'm intentionally moving a
little more slowly through the morning routine today.  Pouring a
second cup of coffee in my favorite mug, I took a extra fifteen
minutes to stare off into space out the backyard window, check on my
hard drive migration, send some emails, and surf around on the
Internet.  Today, I don't have any meetings until after lunch, and I'm
relishing in the freedom.

After yesterday, I feel like I earned a quiet morning.  Yesterday was
busy.  Meeting busy.  Talking to people busy.  Listening to people and
writing down what they say busy.  Perpetual zoom call busy.  A
bureaucratic gauntlet of a Monday.  I barely had time to shovel some
soup and mac and cheese into my mouth for lunch, let alone go for a
walk to soak up the beautiful fall weather.  The end of the work day
descended without warning, and all of the sudden Marissa and I were
discussing dinner and evening plans at my computer over a bowl of
pistachios - her face misted with sweat from her afternoon jog around
the block.

"We should go for a walk today," she said.  "It's gorgeous out."

I grunted, my eyes rolling to glance at the clock in the corner of my
monitor.  "I was going to make chili tonight, and I have to make the
cornbread too," I sighed.  "Is it worth eating a little later?"

"What if I help?" asked Marissa, eagerly.  "I'll do the cornbread."

I leaned forward to get up out of my chair.  "Perfect - let's hit it."

After leashing up the dogs, helping Rodney track down his shoes, and
throwing a blanket over Miles, we went for a long walk around the
block.  We bounced from sidewalk to sidewalk, cautiously crossing the
street to keep our distance from other people with the same idea.

Rodney asked if he could hold Ollie's leash.  After making it clear
that it was a big responsibility, we agreed.  Rodney wears
responsibility well - it must be an older sibling thing.  Ollie tested
him, trying to stop to mark his territory on shrubs or sniff along the
fence.  Rodney grunted, pulling him along.  "C'mon, _big cheese_," he
scolded.  "Let's go."

Back at home, I got to work dicing onions, garlic, celery, and ancho
chillies, combining it all in a stock pot with our second bag of
thawed barbecue pork.  Marissa threw together the cornbread in a cast
iron skillet.  With her help, our walk only offset our punctual dinner
by twenty minutes - we had to wait for everything to simmer anyway.
We sat at the table and began to inhale pork chili with sour cream,
corn bread, and good old Wisconsin cheddar.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-06-chili.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 06 chili" src="/images/2020-10-06-chili.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Dada, this is _pretty, pretty_ spicy," said Rodney, looking at his
spoon with a single bulging eye.

"You gotta eat it, dude," I mumbled between chewing, swallowing a
mouthful.  "Spicy food is good for your belly."

"Good for your belly?" he repeated.

"Sure," I nodded.  "Good for your belly.  Good for your brain too."

I don't have any science to back that up.  Parenting intuition just
tells me it's good to make kids eat spicy things sometimes, even if
they're uncomfortable.

After dinner, I cleaned Rodney up and set out the electric piano for
our music lesson.  Up until yesterday, Rodney knew all but two notes
in the C scale.  He gingerly hit the keys with his index finger while
I sang _do-re-mi-fa-so-la..._, my voice trailing off.

"Ready to learn the rest of it?" I asked.  Rodney eagerly squirmed in
his seat.

I continued on the seventh note.  "_Ti-do!_  See dude?  This one is
_doh_."

"Two _doh_'s?" laughed Rodney.

"Sure, dude," I said.  "This one up here is _lil' doh_.  And this big
boy down here is _big doh_."

I had Rodney turn around in his chair.  I alternated between playing
big _doh_ and little _doh_, making him guess by ear.  I threw in one
middle C as a curveball.  "That one is _medium_ doh."

"Medium!" shouted Rodney.  "Just like Rodney!"

Pushing my luck, I tried to explain what an _octave_ was.

"So count the steps between big _doh_ and little _doh_," I
instructed.  In unison, we counted the keys one at a time.  "One, two,
three, four, five, six... seven."

I scratched my head.  "I think we did something wrong.  Let's start
over."

"One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, _eight_ - there, that's more
I like it," I laughed nervously.  "_Eight_ steps."

Rodney stared at me blankly.

"Eight steps is special.  That's an _octave_.  Can you say _octave_?"
I asked.

"Octave," Rodney repeated.

"An octave is important because..." My explanation cut short, as I
started to laugh.  Explaining something to a four year old is the
crucible of knowledge, and not all of my lessons make it out in tact.
In truth, you don't really understand something until you can explain
it to a four year old - until you can explain it to Rodney.

"Just remember that word, OK?" I laughed.  "Someday, someone will
explain to you _why_ it's important."

After each piano lesson, we put on a very fancy piano recital for
Mom.  Rodney and I briefly reviewed the lesson plan, then we called
Marissa into the living room.

"One second, sir, I need to find my ticket," she said, pretending to
scour the living room.  She grandiosely handed Rodney an imaginary
piece of paper.

With poise, I gave Rodney a regaling introduction.  "First, this
young, talented pianist will demonstrate the _entire_ _do-re-mi_ scale
forwards... AND backwards."

Rodney carefully pressed the keys, hitting every note from big _doh_
to little _doh_.  We clapped.  Feeling like he was the center of
attention, Rodney continued to feed off the energy, starting an
electric drum track and mashing the keys wildly.

"This is the improvisational portion of the concert," I announced over
the noise.

We have a lot of fun with piano lessons.  Sometimes they get a little
rowdy, but Rodney and I both look forward to them each week.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
