---
title: bruno
banner: 2020-06-09.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Tuesday.  I hope you're feeling good
about this week.  If you're like me, and you didn't get a great start
to the week, there's still plenty of time to rally.  It's only
Tuesday, and it's a fine day to step it up and be productive.

Yesterday has a truly awful beginning.  Rodney and I did an admirable
job trying to bounce back from our hectic power surge morning with
some _lekker_ French toast, but Marissa and I still couldn't wake up.

"I've drank almost our entire caraf of coffee," said Marissa.  "This
morning just sucked so much.  It's like I can't wake up now."

"I hear ya," I said.  "It took me twice as long to write the entry
that morning.  It was a real battle getting coherent words out of my
head."

"Let's get excited about running some errands.  Did you still want to
pick up _lil' guy_ today?" said Marissa quietly.  But hearing a
passing mention of his beloved shrimp, Rodney snapped out of his
Blippi daze to join the conversation.

"LIL' GUY?  Awww I miss my lil' guy," said Rodney.

"We're picking him up from the vet today, dude," I said.  "Want to do
some family errands after lunch?"

After polishing off some turkey sandwiches and dinner leftovers at the
table, our entire clan slowly migrated outside into the driveway and
packed into the car.

"Gosh, it takes us forever to get going places now," I griped.  "I
forgot about how much crap we have to bring."

There's the diaper bag, the stroller, putting the dogs away, and to
add to the irritation, Miles is growing so fast that it seems like his
car seat needs a full blown adjustment every time we place him inside.

"The straps are supposed to be up by his shoulders right?" asked
Marissa.  "This seems too small now."

"Oh geez," I laughed.  "Yeah those are down by his belly.  What did he
double in size this week?"

At last, we were off, and our first stop was Alex and Cassie's place.
We met them in front of their building, chatting through our cracked
car windows.  They waved at Rodney, leaned in to get a good look at
Miles, and lamented the condo rooftop chores they had that happened to
line up with such a brutally hot day.

"Dude, it was so nice seeing Alex and Cassie," I said to Rod as we
backed out of their driveway.

"I think the next stop is the fish store," said Marissa.

We parked, and some time later, Marissa and Rodney returned, carefully
making their way through the parking lot with a long cardboard box and
a tiny plastic bag.  Even from across the parking lot, I could see
that Marissa had not gotten another pale cleaning shrimp.  This one
was bright fire engine red.  Rodney pulled the door open and shouted
into the car.

"Dada!  My friend is RED now," he yelled.

"I see that," I said, delicately taking the bag from Marissa into my
lap.

"They were out of cleaner shrimp, so he's a _blood fire_ shrimp," said
Marissa.

"Man, look at this guy," I said studying the bag.  "He looks so
much... _meatier_."

"I know right?" laughed Marissa.  "He almost looks like the kind of
shrimp you would eat."

"Are we still going to go with the name _Stephane_?  Somehow it feels
sloppy to use the same name for a different species," I asked.

"I agree," replied Marissa.  "He doesn't look like a Stephane."

"Since our theme so far has been YouTube chefs, I feel like this one
is a Bruno.  I could definitely see him staring right through the
camera with his gentle, hulkish features and popping a dollop of
whipped mascarpone in his mouth."

"_Follow me on twee-tare, pin-terest, facebook, and IN-sta-grahm_,"
said Marissa, mimicking his distinct French accent.

Back at home, we began Bruno's tank acclimation.  This time, we were
much more delicate, adding only a few tablespoons of tank water to his
bag every ten minutes for two hours.  I anxiously leaned close into
the tank to survey for signs of life each time I passed through living
room.

"Couldn't you just let him acclimate like all night?" I asked Marissa.

"That's the tricky part," said Marissa.  "You can't leave him in the
bag too long, or he'll run out of air.  But take him out too soon, and
the water will shock him."

At last, it came time for us to release Bruno into his tank.  He
immediately scurried into a comfy space between a live rock and the
tank heater.

Meanwhile, I took our new tank light out of the box and began perusing
through the instruction manual.  "So this thing is really fancy tank
light," I said.  "I think it was worth the money.  It's got bluetooth,
and it's programmable through an app."

I flicked a few buttons on my phone, and immediately the tank swelled
with gorgeous blue light.  Rodney and Marissa _ooh_'ed and _ahh_'ed
from the living room.

"So it will automatically simulate a 24 hour sunlight cycle," I
explained.  Watch this, I'll put it in preview mode."

In a sixty second interval, the tank light cycled through a dim orange
"sunrise", a sustained period of bright daylight, and a concluded with
a sunset, transitioning beautifully into a cool blue nighttime phase.

"This is the coolest thing I've ever seen," said Marissa.  "It would
be cool, even if we didn't have a live animal inside of it right now."

"Speaking of which," I laughed.  "What is Bruno up to?"

Marissa grabbed the turkey baster from the kitchen, and gently poked
him.  Bruno recoiled in fear.

"He's doing good," she said.  "I think he's adjusting to the water,
but it's a good sign that he's moving."

We ate dinner.  Perhaps an unintentionally cruel choice for the
occasion, I made shrimp fried rice.  "If Bruno didn't make it through
dinner, who knows - he may have joined the other shrimp," I laughed.

I checked on Bruno this morning.  Over night, he's burrowed more
deeply under the live rock, but he still responds quite well to the
turkey baster.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/bruno-hiding.jpg">
    <img alt="bruno hiding" src="/images/bruno-hiding.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>The mighty Bruno, who probably wishes we would stop basting him and
just leave him the hell alone.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  Have a wonderful day today.

[Bruno]: https://youtu.be/QqBWwqEZufw
