---
title: the first snow, fridge scraps, and playing hockey
banner: 2020-10-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Hey everybody.  Hope your Sunday and your weekend is going well, and
that you are leaning into the cozy vibes this cold October weekend.
Stocks for hoodies and hats are up.  Crisp walks around the block are
in fashion.  I even finally packed up my ratty Adidas flip-flops.  A
little earlier in the afternoon, the dark overcast clouds gave way to
just the smallest snow flurry.  As a family, we discussed the
technicalities of our yearly tradition.

"Does this count as the first snow?" asked Marissa leaning out of the
kitchen back door.  "Or does it have to actually start sticking?"

"I don't remember anything about the snow sticking," I said.  "As far
as I know, if it snows, we have to watch _Frozen_ that same night."
Rodney scampered into the kitchen, kicking around a hockey puck on the
ground.

"I don't want to watch _Frozen_," he said.  "That movie is too scary."

I furrowed my brow in confusion.  Rodney ran away.

"He thinks _every_ movie is scary, as long as it has, you know, a plot
and a climax." explained Marissa.  "Except for the _dudes_ movie.
I'll admit it, that movie is pretty even keel."

_Sip_.  We've had a relaxing day today.  To hold us over for another
few days, I picked up a small grocery trip from Hy-Vee this morning.
Throughout this whole pandemic, there has been a constant weekly
trade-off between getting more groceries and just staying home and
making due with what we already have in the fridge and pantry.  The
colder it gets, the harder it is to justify heading out the door more
than once a week.

After a good grocery trip, the fresh vegetables and the good meat is
always first to go.  We eat our way into the heartier vegetables, the
good cheese, and maybe we break into a chicken or two.  After more
than a week at the grocery store, things start to get weird.  Fried
rice with Chinese food leftovers.  Mac n cheese with cabbage.  Penne
pasta with an andouille and canadian bacon meat sauce.

Last night for dinner, scraping the back of our fridge, Rodney and I
laid out some cheap provolone and turkey slices between two sheets of
puff pastry and slid it into the oven.  While it finished, Rodney
remained at the cutting board, stabbing at the extra slice of puff
pastry with a fork.  The marks from the fork, as he explained, were
sparkles.  After we finished dinner, I clued Rodney in on a surprise.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-10-25-sparkles.jpg">
<img alt="2020 10 25 sparkles" src="/images/2020-10-25-sparkles.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Chef Rodney skillfully applies sparkles to scrap puff pastry.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

"You better finish your turkey and cheese pastry," I said.  "We still
need to have dessert."

Rodney's head shot up and his eyes widened.

"That's right dude," I said.  "And guess what - _you_ made it."

After Rodney had lost interest in his puff pastry experiment, I
dropped the scraps on a pan and baked it after dusting it with sugar
and cinnamon.  It wasn't bad, served with a scoop of ice cream of
course.

Above all else, hockey has been the theme of the weekend.  We watched
the Mighty Ducks on the couch on Friday as a family.  Even baby Miles
sat propped up between us, his baby eyes wide and bulging like he was
struggling to keep up with the fast moving plot of the film.

I think the movie may have re-ignited Rodney's love for hockey.  We
picked up some new sticks, a puck, and a new net from the sporting
good store.  At Rodney's wish, we slid the puck around the back deck
last night past his bedtime.  Today, to tire him out for quiet time, I
took him across the street to the community center parking lot,
dragging the shiny regulation sized PVC hockey net behind us.

Rodney and I shot the puck around the parking lot as the snow picked
up.  The adverse weather made for some excellent action shots.  Rodney
is a lot better since the last time we did this.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-10-25-hockey.jpg">
<img alt="2020 10 25 hockey" src="/images/2020-10-25-hockey.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"I think we won!" Rodney said, chasing the puck to the corner of the
parking lot, out of breath.  "I think it's time to go home now.  My
hands are cold."

I made my way across the blacktop to join him at the side walk.  "Sure
dude, it's probably time for you to take a nap anyway," I said.  We
scooped up the gear, and began lugging the hockey net back home.

On the way home, we passed by a house across the street from the
community center.  At the end of the driveway stood a boy who was
Rodney's age.  He was holding a hockey stick limply in his hand,
looking dejected.  Rodney, squinting through the snow, didn't see him.
But I saw him, and not knowing what else to do, I just waved.

"That's the saddest thing I've ever heard," said Marissa back at
home.  "How old was he?"

"He was almost literally Rodney's age," I said shaking my head.
"That's a tough call though.  Is it safe?  I mean it's just hockey,
but being around someone else, running around, breathing heavily.  I
wouldn't have felt right about it anyway."

At least we know that once the pandemic is through, Rodney will have a
hockey buddy to scrimmage with.

Back at home writing at the computer, it's already starting to get
dark outside.  Condensation is running down the windows, as it usually
does when I make chicken stock in the kitchen.  Nothing left for today
except for dinner, clean-up, and by a narrow margin of a technicality,
watching the movie _Frozen_ to celebrate the first snow day.

I'm happy that Rodney is getting so much joy from hockey.  Because
it's something that I also enjoy, it's easy to spend time together.

It's been a great weekend.  So great, I'm almost not ready to head
back into work.  This week, I'm thinking about on-boarding a new part
time intern and keeping up the momentum for a very ambitious project.
That can all wait until Monday. We still have a whole wonderful cozy
Sunday night ahead of us.  I think I'm going to go open a bottle of
wine now.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a great day today.
