---
title: dutch grammar, projects, work, and bowling
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. I'd like to share
a small victory with you this morning. After finally completing the
"Numbers" section in Dutch Duolingo, I moved onto "Conjunctions 1", and
for the past few days I have been wrestling with a new grammar rule that
affects word order. For the most part, I think Duolingo does a really
good job preventing you from overthinking things. You learn purely from
examples, and when you need to read about why you got something wrong,
you can click a button that takes you to an open comment forum tied to
the question. Usually, somebody takes the time to outline a rule that's
confusing everyone. This new rule has really been a thorn in my side,
and I was starting to get discouraged. Last night, I sat at the dining
room table in front of my cold leftovers mauling it over while Rodney
played with his Nerf gun in the living room and Marissa continued
painting the windows. After wading through comments and google results,
it finally clicked.

The rule had to do with *subordinate clauses*, or the way I like to
think of them, combinations of words that could make a sentence if it
didn't start with a word like "because" or "if". For example take the
sentence:

> I don't know if he eats vegetables.

The *subordinate clause* would be *if he heats vegatables*. It has a
subject, a verb, and it's even a complete thought. But because of the
*if*, it cannot stand alone as a sentence. If you walked up to somebody
and whispered into their ear *If he eats vegetables*, you might confuse
or frustrate someone with the incomplete thought.

In Dutch, the verb within a subordinate clause moves to the end of the
clause. So literally translated, the above would read

> I don't know if he vegetables eats.

Can you see why I was feeling hopeless? That's a very nuanced rule to
pull out of comments. And to add to it, this was the first section where
the comments seemed a little different. Normally they're flooded with
poorly written questions revolving something covered in the first few
sections, but I can tell that I've gotten to a point where fewer people
have made it. The comments are more articulate, and even a little angry.

Last night, as I was cleaning the kitchen, I started to space out and
stare at a plaque on my wall. It's a silly little saying written in
Dutch delft that translates

> Beer, beer, I will drink you, even if I have to crawl on all fours.

As I was staring at the sentence, something jumped out at me. The *even
if I have to crawl on all fours* - that was a subordinate clause! As
dictated by the new rule I learned that evening, the verb came at the
very end. So it literally translated to

> â€¦even If I have to on all fours crawl.

Or in Dutch, *al moel ik op handen voeten kruipen*. Isn't that ironic? I
had been wrestling with this grammar rule, and suddenly after getting it
down, I realize that a perfect example sentence has been hanging on my
wall.

So Dutch is going great. And to change speeds a bit, we had a great
weekend. My wife kicked butt on the living room and managed to get all
the windows in our living room painted this weekend. Last night before
going to bed, we gathered around the project whiteboard and triumphantly
tossed the completed cards into the garbage. It felt good to get all of
our thoughts and ideas down onto cards, but it feels even better
watching the deck of cards shrink. Last night, the empowering reality
that we can get real work done in only a week started to settle in.
"This is a good system," Marissa said before we turned in for the night.
"I feel encouraged."

So between Dutch grammar and house projects, victories abound. Well,
they abound for everyone but the New Orleans Saints. They were swiftly
eliminated from playoff contention by the Vikings yesterday, who
inexplicably played like a real contending team. There's this joke about
how the Vikings play great against everyone except the Bears, and
watching the game, I couldn't help but dwell on that superstition. The
Saints kept it interesting and forced an overtime, but it only took one
drive and an easy lob to end it all. "Now who am I going to root for in
the playoffs," I griped. "Maybe I should cheer for Greenbay so they also
get eliminated."

For dinner, I made chicken breast, mashed sweet potatoes, and a mushroom
sausage wine pan sauce. It turned out great, but I didn't make enough
sweet potatoes, which was unexpected. I boil russet potatoes for our
family all the time, and four russets seemingly last us a week. I
suppose sweet potatoes do the opposite. Maybe they get smaller when they
cook. Maybe they're filled with water - who knows!

All in all, we had a great, restful weekend. This work week is going to
get a little dicey. We are starting the hiring rounds for our summer
internship program, and I have a lot of code screens coming my way. This
week, Marissa and I area also attacking a corner of our basement. I have
a feeling it's going to be an exhausting week, but I also know that
we're probably going to close things off at the bowling alley. The
bowling alley is a magical place. There's nothing to do - no
expectations or obligations. No deadlines bearing down. Just a relaxing
little corner of our universe that comforts me, knowing it's waiting for
us at the end of this busy week.

I hope you all have a wonderful week. Stick to your commitments and
resolutions, and take time to celebrate when you complete them. Have a
great Monday, everyone!

