---
title: jenga trick shots, ibb and obb, and grand theft auto
banner: 2020-08-02.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  From my computer screen to yours, I'd like to
with you a happy Sunday.  This morning, I'm using fresh coffee and
gospel music to mentally drown out the Blippi episode reverberating
around the living room.  Rodney is changed, fed, and happily having a
morning to himself on the couch.  Miles, Marissa, and the dogs will
emerge from our bedroom any minute now.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was one of those days where 1000 words of writing
just felt insurmountable.  Marissa and Rodney finished eating and were
getting ready to go outside and enjoy the day while I continued to
languish at the dining room computer.

"Dear Journal.  Yesterday I spent ALL DAY WRITING A JOURNAL ENTRY," I
shouted before getting up to warm up my coffee.

It's tough to write on Saturday mornings.  Something about sleeping in
just zaps the creative energy.  I think it's because I've spent almost
my entire life _not_ working on anything on Saturday mornings.  Nobody
does homework on a Saturday morning.  Saturday mornings are for
cartoons, hobbies, and using a big breakfast as an excuse to stay in
your pajamas a little longer than usual.  Sundays are easier for me.
I'm doing a better job batting away the distractions and staying on
task.

When I finally got the daily publication out the door, I scooped up
Miles out of his chair and joined Marissa and Rodney outside.  Having
just finished mowing the lawn, Rodney was following Marissa around
with a bucket, picking up walnuts in the yard.

Miles had a fussy day.  Whether he was with me or Marissa, he seemed
to spend all day either screaming or on the verge of screaming.

"Is he a harder baby than Rodney?" I asked Marissa as we dug into a
small lunch of leftover pizza.

"Definitely," said Marissa.

"Even when Rodney had all the ear infections?" I clarified.  Marissa
stared off into space for a few seconds to recollect.

"You know what," said Marissa.  "It's a close call.  Rodney would wake
up more in the night, especially before the ear tubes.  Miles sleeps
through the night, but he's way more fussy during the day."

Almost on cue, Miles spit is pacifier out of his mouth and began to
wale.

"At least Rodney actually used a pippy," said Marissa while Miles
briefly stopped screaming to catch his breath.

Later that day, after finishing up dinner, we decided to play a few
rounds of Jenga.  We cleared the table and erected the Jenga tower,
and after fishing a chopstick out of the back of the silver ware
drawer, we took turns carefully removing loose bricks from the
structure.

Mariss scanned over the structure, using the tip of the chopstick to
probe for easy candidates.

"You should try this one," I said, gesturing at the very bottom
brick.  The entire tower rested on this single brick.  Marissa cracked
a smile.

"You just want to see me mess up," she laughed.

"No, it can be done," I said earnestly.  "You just got to go _fast_."

"Like pulling a table cloth out?" asked Marissa.  I nodded, getting
up out of my chair to clear room for her.

She swiftly swung her arm at the brick.  It flew off the table and
rolled onto the floor.  The tower hung in the air for a moment, then
slowly tumbled, scattering bricks everywhere.

From there, our game of Jenga turned into a "Jenga trick shot"
contest.  Marissa successfully recreated the attempted trick shot, and
I tried to best her with a two brick version of the same move.

After getting Rod to bed, Marissa and I split off to catch up on some
chores.  After finishing the dishes and taking the garbage out, I
joined her in the living room, leaning up against the wall with a beer
while she cleaned the fish tank.

After messaging my cousin, who is a saltwater tank guru, Marissa
wanted to redo the cabling underneath the tank.  "Tami said that I
need to tie _drip loops_ to each of the cables," explained Marissa.
"They serve as a lowest point of gravity to keep water from running
into the socket."

After putting the tools and cable wraps away, Marissa retrieved a
little bag of fish food from the shelf.  She sprinkled the red
speckled food on the glassy surface of the water.  Obb, the bigger
clown fish, began to circle like a shark.

"Obb has gotten so mean," said Marissa.  "Tami said it's normal for
them to be mean, but did you know that he tries to bite me?"

Obb pecked greedily at the food.  Ibb, the smaller of the two, paddled
around helplessly at the bottom of the tank.

"And she steals all the food too.  If I want Ibb to have some, I have
to slip it past Obb with the filter."

Marissa dropped a single grain of food on the filter.  The water
swiftly carried it past Obb.  Ibb meekly picked it up off the sandy
floor.

"I'm sure that's just natural," I said.  "Obb is kind of like a
twenty-four seven body guard.  Her job takes more energy.  Still - I
wonder if Ibb would get _any_ food if not for you little trick with
the filter."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/ibb-and-obb.jpg">
    <img alt="ibb and obb" src="/images/ibb-and-obb.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Ibb, blink twice if you don't feel safe.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Marissa and I headed downstairs into the studio.  Over beers, Marissa
caught up on some gallery house keeping while I played Grand Theft
Auto.

I've been getting a lot of joy from Grand Theft Auto.  I think because
of it's attention in the news, most people think it's only worth
playing for the violence - which is _half_ true.  The genius is Grand
Theft Auto is in the details.  There are plenty of video games that
will do a fine job simulating the experience of stealing a car.  But
in Grand Theft Auto, it's a neon green jeep, and the driver has
frosted tips, expensive sunglasses, a bluetooth earpiece, and with a
yoga mat slung over his back he'll protest that _you're negative
energy is seriously bumming him out_.  By the time you peel away
leaving him stranded on a busy freeway, his car radio resumes blaring
new age music, which is interrupted by a sensationalized cable news
style bulletin recounting the public's perspective of a heist you just
finished.

The other hilarious aspect of GTA is how it humiliates you with your
own mistakes.  Last night, I was completing a flashy jewelry store
heist.  After knocking out the patrons with gas and gutting the store,
I was covering my team from a stolen armored truck while they made
their getaway on dirt bikes.  Together we whizzed through an abandoned
aqueduct, narrowly missing high speed collisions with cop cars.

Suddenly, my crew members stopped, pulling in front of me with their
dirt bikes and slowing to a halt on a platform.  But with my finger
planted firmly on the accelerator, I kept barreling through, and I
slammed the truck into one of the bikes.  And so in the cooldown phase
of the cinematic heist when we were supposed to be hiding the bikes in
the truck and making a clean, professional getaway, there I was in
slow motion being thrown from the truck to join my other slaughtered
crew member in a mess of twisted metal and flaming wreckage.  An
unexpected turn of events, to say the least.

"OPE," I exclaimed.  "Well at least we don't have to pay him his cut
anymore."

"I thought you've played this before," laughed Marissa.

"I _did_," I laughed.  "But I was not prepared to stop."

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day
today.
