---
title: july, crudités, and breaking up with hy-vee
banner: 2020-07-31.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, fearless readers.  Happy Friday, and congratulations on
making it to the end of the work week.

I think today is a bitter sweet marker in the summer calendar.
Despite heading into another wide open weekend in the middle of
quarantine summer, it's also the last day of July.  Things will get a
little more serious in August, won't they?  An election ramping up.
COVID numbers rising.  A complicated back to school season.

I also return to work later in August.  Being off all summer for
paternity leave has been nothing short of magical, and I think
tomorrow's month change will be the first whisper of reality to
permeate the walls of this jobless summer dream world.  My mind set
will be a lot different in August, mentally warming up to re enter the
work force.  I'm looking forward to getting back to work.  While I've
had no trouble staying busy without the day job, I miss the subject
matter, the social circle, and all the routines that come with being a
worker bee.

Maybe I'm getting ahead of myself.  We still have one more night in
July, after all, and perhaps it's providence that it falls on a
Friday.  We have a good day planned - Zoom story time with the
cousins, appetizers and happy hour with Alex and Cassie at the
Biergarten, and a homemade pizza for dinner - a fun day that will seem
even more special over the backdrop of bidding farewell to the
comfortable middle of the summer.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  After attacking my chores for
the day, cleaning out the fridge and putting in an online grocery
order, I got the morning to myself to write code at the dining room
computer.  For the nerds in the room, I started hacking together a
proof of concept for my own miniature static blogging framework.
Jekyll has served me well, and all my customizations work well enough
hidden inside a plugin, but the framework itself just feels like it's
getting in the way.  I'm growing tired of the large set of
configuration options I need just to get it to do what I want, and
like a field of greener grass on the other side of this fence, I'm
starting to pine for something much leaner and more minimalist.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/wip-blog.png">
    <img alt="wip blog" src="/images/wip-blog.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Work in
progress.  In lack of a more creative name, I'm just calling it 'blog'
for now.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I have no self control when it comes to coding, and if not for a
polite interruption from my hungry family, I probably would have sat
at the dining room computer writing code until the sun went down.
After shaking out of my trance, we dined on some leftover mixed up
sausage, onions, and corn, hash, and _Crudités_.

While we're on the subject, I'd like to give a shout-out to
_Crudités_.  Is there a lazier dish more undeserving of a fancy French
name?  Just a side of plain, raw vegetables.  And when you serve
someone _Crudités_, not only do you get the credit of preparing a
healthy side dish, but it's also a great way to clean out the
vegetable drawer of off-cuts and other unused vegetable scraps.

"We used to serve a Crudités at the Starbucks I worked at," I said,
regaling my family with a story over lunch.  "It was literally just
like a kids Dole vegetable cup.  We had to rip the plastic off and
dump it into a fancier glass cup, then walk it over.  And since it was
on the fancy menu, people ordered it with wine."

"_You're crudités, sir_," I said, dropping a handful of bell peppers
and carrots on Rodney's plate.

"Thank you _sir_," said Rodney, echoing my stuffy tone.

In the afternoon, we decided to run some errands together.  Along with
the Hy-Vee grocery pickup, Marissa also needed just a single tube of
paint from Michael's.  This led us to the nearby strip mall on the
east side, which is its own annoying little nightmare for us.  For
whatever reason, the second we cross into that exact parking lot, both
Marissa and I completely lose cell signal.  And without the ability to
reliably Google a phone number, open up an email attachment, or send a
push notification, online pickups can really suck.

We parked alongside the Michaels.  Marissa dialed through their
automated phone line three times, each time the call dropping while
talking to the same lady.  We had to drive to the other side of the
parking lot to complete the call.

"What's the name?" she said, coming out to our car.

"Marissa.  Recker." said Marissa out the window.

"We don't have and order for that name," said the woman promptly.

Marissa closed her eyes momentarily and sighed.  "How about Marissa
_Jensen_," she said.

"Ope, there it is," said the woman.  "Oh, and you're phone is _not_
working at all."

"How do they know your maiden name?" I laughed.

"It's paypal," said Marissa, putting her phone back in her purse.  "I
looked into changing it once, but it's just ridiculous.  You have to
send them government documents or something.  Nothing else seemed to
require that, but for some reason PayPal thinks they're the center of
the universe."

"Some day, we'll take care of it," I said.  "It's kind of like you're
Frodo, and your maiden name is..." I stopped myself.  "You know what,
I think I've been using that Lord of the Rings metaphor a little too
much.  I'll skip it this time."

We parked at Hy-Vee to get our pick-up, and I headed in to grab the
hand full of items that Hy-Vee's website _said_ they were out of.
After adding my groceries to the top of the pile, I climbed back in
the car.  Once we were at home, I tallied up the missing items with a
receipt.

"What did they do this time?" said Marissa.

"Well, they gave us two extra jugs of olive oil, which is a nice
surprise, and one random bottle of ketchup that we didn't ask for," I
said.  "Also, they missed our water."

In Marissa's eyes, I saw her heart sink.  Hy-Vee forgetting our
bottled water was a small inconvenience, but it was the capstone in a
long line of small, frustrating inconveniences.

"I'll just go back," said Marissa.  "I know it's dumb, but I really
want bottled water in the house.  I'll take Rod."

About an hour later, my phone vibrated.  "We're never shopping at
Hy-Vee again," read the message from Marissa.

"So I call them on the phone, and the manager says it's no problem,"
said Marissa after returning.  "But then I get there and the lady
starts to argue with me.  She said that the water's were labeled for
someone named _Jennifer_.  I explained that I already talked to the
store manager, but the lady said we would have to wait for another
delivery."

"Yeah," added Rodney.  "Dada, _Jennifer_."

"I watched the whole thing happen," said Marissa.  "A car pulls up
next to me, and lady screams over my car to Jennifer, and Jennifer
said the waters weren't hers.  Rodney made me laugh because he said
_Momma look!  It's Jennifer!_"

Rodney smiled in approval.

"So the lady says what I was trying to explain - that the water wasn't
for Jennifer, but for me.  And she laughs it off and sends us on our
way," says Marissa.

"Did you ask Jennifer if she was missing a bottle of ketchup?" I
laughed.

"We can't shop at Hy-Vee anymore," said Marissa more seriously.

"I'm behind that," I said.  "There's no point in doing online orders
with them if they get it wrong, and you have to go back or I have to
just go in myself to fix it."

"We'll try Woodman's next," said Marissa.  "Did you know it's actually
closer to us?"

Broken up with Hy-Vee, The Recker family is single, ready to mingle,
and we already have an upcoming date with a new grocery store.  Thanks
for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
