---
title: the paint store, mac 'n cheese, and deflating balloons
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Welcome to the new work week.  I'm grateful
that even though things are a little dicey right now on the public
health front, having a weekend to recoup helped me.  Even just the act
of not working for two days and returning again on Monday feels normal
and refreshing.  And I'm not the only one looking forward to getting
back to work.  All weekend long, Ollie was giving me longing glances,
telling me how much he missed working.  "We're back to work tomorrow
morning, Ollie," I said.  Ollie cocked his head attentively.  "We have
a planning meeting at 9, and I have a 1-on-1 in the afternoon...," I
went on, relishing in the joy Ollie feels from me recapping my work
day.

If Ollie is my work week puppy, Ziggy is my weekend puppy.  If it were
up to her, we'd stay in bed all day - except I would get out of bed
twice a day to bring her a scoop of dogfood.  Or maybe we would just
eat cheese balls all day and watch movies, and occasionally peek out
the window to yell at somebody crossing our sidewalk.  Having a dog
like Ziggy around - a dog who maximizes all opportunities to relax,
eat, and indulge your impulses - it's easy to get swept up the spirit
of a good weekend.  What I'm saying is that in life, you need a dog
like Ollie to get the most out of your work week, as well as a dog
like Ziggy to get the most out of your weekend.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a good day.  In the morning, I hung out in the
living room with Rodney and messed around with my blog.  I enjoy
playing around with the code that runs behind the scenes, and
yesterday I was finally able to finish porting all my custom scripts
to a jekyll plug-in.  Rodney watched Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles in
the background.  But while getting up to make a pot of coffee, I
noticed he had turned off the TV.

"He said the turtles were too scary," said Marissa holding the remote.
"Poor guy, he was just sitting in here with the TV turned off."  I
looked at Rodney and pouted.

"Ah dang-it," I said.  "That newer turtles show does get a little
scary at times.  Pretty much anytime that giant brain in the robot
comes out, something way too scary happens."  I turned some YouTube on
for him instead.  The rest of the morning, I caught up on emails while
Rodney sat beside me.  YouTube had automatically queued up some _Let's
Play_ Fortnight videos for him, and he was perched high up on a stack
of pillows with a box turned upside down over his head holding his
hockey stick and cradling his apple juice.  A picture of total
apocalyptic readiness, don't you think?

I decided to head out and complete my short list of errands for the
day.  My first stop was Sherwin Williams.  Marissa needed more paint
to finish the basement ceiling.  I jumped in the car and drove to the
small paint store.  A quiet, older guy greeted me at the door.  I
flashed him a picture of the paint I needed and repeated Marissa's
instructions - "It's very old wood.  Four cans of the brightest, most
intense primer you got."

"OK no problem," the man said.  "I'll just get that on the mixer right
away for ya."  The man took slow, shuffled steps into the back room.
Standing alone, my eyes were drawn to a bottle of hand sanitizer
sitting on his desk.

"I felt like I was in the middle of an apocalypse movie," I laughed
with Marissa later.  In my head, I pictured slipping the bottle into
my pocket, then hearing a shotgun click behind me, the older man
calmly saying _I saw that.  Put it back, and we won't have trouble_.

Of course I didn't steal the Sherwin Williams hand sanitizer.  The
thought was amusing, but I didn't act on it.  The man returned from
the back room.  "Want me to help you load it into your car?"

"Nah, I got it.  I could use the exercise," I said, picking up the
box.  The box of paint was much heavier than I expected, but I saved
face, propping it on my knee while I wiggled open the door with my
foot.

I picked up our lunch from the nearby Subway, then drove home to find
my family hanging out in the living room.  We enjoyed Subway
Sandwiches and cheese balls while watching our church's live stream in
the dining room.  After the service, we switched it over to a live
news conference being held by the city of Madison.

"They really have it together," I said.  The mayor was confident and
concise.  The press conference was structured and thorough.

"Yeah, this is the best thing I've watched all week," said Marissa.

The rest of the afternoon, I gave Marissa lots of time to finish
painting the basement.  And after bearing witness to how arduous of a
task that was, I was extra grateful she stuck it out and finished it
alone.  Later in the evening, she emerged from the basement
victorious, her hair and face decorated with large globs of white
primer.  "We can move the card over," she announced.

"Hey, we're all done for the week, and it's not even dinner yet!" I
exclaimed.  "We should be proud that we still got so much done around
the house."

For dinner, I heated up some leftovers, hydrating a pot of leftover
chicken noodle soup with some leftover beef stock.  "So I'm going to
have this... well, now beef flavored chicken noodle soup," I laughed.
"Want me to make some Mac 'n Cheese?"  Rodney's eyes lit up.
Together, we made a batch at the stove.

"Watch this, dude," I said, handing him the wooden spoon and reaching
for a carton of sour creme from the fridge.  "We're gonna make this
more interesting."

"No.  Rodney don't want," said Rodney, holding the wooden spoon in the
pot.  I dropped in a dollop and stirred it in.  "Nah, you'll like it
dude.  You'll barely notice anything is different."  It has been said
that I can never make a batch of Mac 'n Cheese the same way twice.  I
like to mess with it, adding pickles, sour creme, bacon, hot sauce,
and even my own cheese.  That will probably get under Rodney's skin as
he gets older.

After dinner, Rodney and I hung out in the dining room while Marissa
cleaned up from painting.  We found an old package of balloons in the
basement, and we were blowing them up and throwing them around the
room.  "Watch this dude," I said, pinching an inflated balloon with my
fingers, then releasing it to fly around the room.  Rodney's mouth
hung ajar in wonder, and he shouted as it flopped to the floor.
Frankly, watching a balloon flap around the room, bouncing off the
walls and making that hilarious _PFFFFTTTTT_ sound is one of life's
greatest treasures, and it was an honor to introduce it to Rodney.
It's the little things, right?

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful
week.  Stay healthy and courageous.
