---
title: the sandbox, sink or float, and police funding
banner: 2020-06-05.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Congratulations on making it to Friday.  May
your Friday be filled with good coffee in the morning and good wine in
the evening, and maybe a little beer somewhere in the middle.

I'm especially excited for this Friday, as today is oven repair day.
It feels like so long ago since I scheduled this follow up appointment
to fix our oven, and in retrospect, I really underestimated how
difficult it would be to go without an oven for a month longer.
Curating meals without an oven is nothing short of maddening, and I'm
at my wits end - there's only so many things you can chuck in a pan or
in a Dutch oven on the stovetop.  Not to mention I'm really looking
forward to getting back on the homemade sourdough bread train.  All
this while, I've been feeding my sourdough starter _Krang_, and after
such a long hiatus, he is more bubbly and virile than ever.

_Sip_.  So how was your Thursday?  Mine started off in Rodney's
sandbox.  Rodney and I spent the morning hanging in the backyard.  The
sun wasn't yet in full force, so we got to enjoy some cool morning
air, and of course a fresh pot of coffee.  Rodney beckoned me over to
his sandbox.

"Dada," he said.  "Come play sand with me?"

I felt I was due for some intentional playtime, so I walked across the
yard with my coffee mug and sat on a dry corner of his sandbox frame.
But that wasn't enough for Rodney - he wanted me _in_ the sandbox.

"No dada, c'mere... c'mere!" he beckoned, patting the wet, gritty dirt
beside him.  I took a deep breath, one last sip of hot coffee, and
sank my bare feet in the sand beside him.  Rodney smiled.

"I don't know how you put up with all the gnats and the buggies over
here, dude," I said.

"They're my _friends_," replied Rodney.  Fair enough.  Rodney used a
shovel and a castle mold to bury our feet up to our ankles.

"This feels kind of good dude," I said giving my toes a good stretch.
"And it keeps the bugs off your ankles - good move dude."  It was like
Rodney was showing me the mysterious ways of adapting to his habitat
in the backyard sandbox.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/sandbox.jpg">
    <img alt="sandbox" src="/images/sandbox.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Sandbox dwellers like Rodney pour sand over their bodies to
stay cool and protect them from backyard insect hoards.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney and I spent most of the morning in the sandbox.  We played a
silly game where we pretended my big toe was a dormant monster, and
we'd have to bury it every time it broke through the ground.

"Why don't we wash up, dude," I said rising to my feet.  "I have to
water the grass anyway, I'm going to turn the hose on."

Standing from our deck, I sprayed Rodney with the hose, hoping to kick
off a fun backyard romp much like the one he had with Marissa earlier
this week.  But Rodney wasn't feeling it yesterday.  He immediately
grabbed his arms and scowled at me.

"TOO cold, dada," he shouted.

"Oh I'm sorry, dude - I thought you would like that," I said
apologetically.

Marissa joined us downstairs as I was getting Rodney changed into a
clean set of clothes.

"So I tried to spray him with the hose like you did the other day, but
he wasn't having it today - it must be a _mom_ thing," I laughed.  "Do
you guys feel like lunch?"

With Marissa and Rodney relaxing in the living room, I left for the
kitchen, and made what was probably the most historically bad lunch
I've ever made.  The most substantive part of this lunch was a fried
quesadilla, which along with a few lazy handfuls of sliced turkey,
also had way too much mozarella.  Coming off the pan, the quesadilla
was dripping wet with grease.

And to throw even more poor decisions on this grease fire of a lunch,
I got too distracted trying to turn a frozen can of fruit into a ice
cream smoothie, which tasted only as good as the amount of ice cream I
added.

"OK guys, lunch is ready," I said, ushering Rodney and Marissa to a
table of greasy quesadilla slices and flavored melted ice cream.
"Lemme get you some Teddy Grahams for... you know... nutrients."

After lunch, I disappeared upstairs for an afternoon nap, and soon I
was back downstairs, trying to scrub the kitchen clean of cheese
grease and mistakes.  We ordered takeout from the _Great Dane_, and
Rodney, last at the table with food on his plate, was playing with his
dino chicken nuggets.

"Momma," he said tapping Marissa's wrist.  "Will it SINK... or FLOAT?"

"Sink," said Marissa, unsure what Rodney was referring to.  Rodney
raised a dinosaur shaped chicken nugget and dropped it, pretending to
plunge it into a tank of water, like Blippi.

"Dude, let's take this to the next level," I said getting out of my
chair.  I returned with a clear plastic pitcher filled with water.
"Sink or float - for real!"

We played a few more rounds of _sink or float_, letting Rodney act as
the honorary Blippi.  I even provided the music for him, humming the
sink or float theme that plays in the background of Blippi's videos.

"Dude - now the coleslaw," I said sliding the untouched plastic cup of
side coleslaw in Rodney's direction.  The thought alone of coleslaw
bobbing around in a pitcher of water made Marissa dry heave.

"OK - that's it for me," she said getting up from the table.  Our
innocent game of sink or float continued to go off the rails - we
added chicken nuggets, a few squirts of ketchup, Rodney's _Canada Man_
toy, and a few generous drips of pink food coloring.  We snickered at
the dinner table, studying the grotesque mixture in the pitcher.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/submerged-canada-man.jpg">
    <img alt="submerged canada man" src="/images/submerged-canada-man.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>"Canada man is going to need a bath after this, dude."</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I put Rodney to bed, and as I cleaned the kitchen and gutted our
fridge, I listened to an episode of _Chapo Trap House_.  Marissa and I
reconvened on the couch with beers in hand, and the political theme
spilled over into an evening conversation.

"So they raised a pretty good point in the podcast I listened to," I
began.  "So hospitals had such a hard time getting supplies - remember
pictures of nurses wearing garbage bags and re-using bloody face
masks" Marissa nodded.

"But how did the Police have enough supplies so quickly?" I continued.
"I read there were protests in all fifty states.  And not only did the
cops have masks, but plastic face guards, riot shields and tear gas
too.  Isn't that weird?"

"That _is_ a good point," said Marissa thoughtfully.

"Maybe they do have too much funding," I continued.  "The tanks,
rubber bullets, the riot gear.  It's just so over the top.  You have
to ask, 'why the hell do we need this stuff' - and so much of it!  You
know in some places, the cops don't even carry guns!"

We discussed the protests, riots, and police funding.  Marissa also
shared some insights from the audio book she's listening to.

"It helps to talk about this stuff," I said, taking a sip of beer.
"Things have been happening so quickly, it's easy to forget to take
time and process them.  I think it's important to talk things through,
and form opinions."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a happy Friday.
