---
title: groceries, the bears game, and outdoor projects
banner: 2020-09-14.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Dang it!  Missed the Woodman's pickup again.  I swear, it feels like
Monday is booked solid before I even wake up to start the day.  We
could have really used a grocery run today.  We're down to only one
stick of butter in the house.  We're completely out of milk and juice
today, meaning poor Rodney will just have to roll with Mirilax
flavored tap water today.

Today, I swallowed my pride and just put in a quick Hy-Vee run for
later today.  This will be my first Hy-Vee pickup since our big
falling out.  Shopping during the pandemic is difficult enough as is,
I don't think I can afford to complicate it any more with personal
beefs.  Hy-Vee it is.

And that's fine.  There are still one or two things that Hy-Vee has
that Woodman's doesn't.  I can't find regular kosher salt at
Woodman's.  Have you ever tried deviating from the salt you regularly
cook with?  It's a treacherous, difficult adjustment, I tell you.  I
recently tried cooking with coarse grain sea salt, and I'm pretty sure
the result tasted more like the ocean than I wanted it to.

_Sip_.  How is your Monday going so far?  I've only been up for a
little over an hour, but so far so good.  The weather is lovely
outside, and it promises to stay that way for at least the first leg
of the week.  Maybe we'll get a little more outdoor time before all
the mosquitos wise up to it.

I'm feeling good today.  We had a long relaxing weekend.  But if I'm
being honest, the extra pep in my step is probably due to my team's
performance yesterday.  Here's to the Bears, winning their first
season opener since 2013.

Pretty much the whole midday yesterday revolved around football.  With
kickoff starting at 12, this didn't give us much time to get through
the usual weekend morning motion.  In a weird way, it felt like we
were rushing around the house for church - football church.

We watched the first quarter on the couch together, but soon I sprang
back up to start preparing some lunch.  I've found that I like to move
around the house during games.  I get too nervous and too fixated on
the game if I stay in the same spot for the whole thing, and if your
team doesn't do so hot, than at least it doesn't feel like you wasted
away a whole afternoon.

So while the Lions built on an early and commanding lead over our
beloved Bears, I cleaned up from breakfast and set out some snacks in
the living room - ranch, celery sticks, and to Rodney's delight, the
rest of those silly colorful carrots.

The game wasn't looking good.  I could tell the team was different
since last season, but we were still lopsided and not very
consistent.  My take on it was that the offense was finally up to
snuff, but the defense was surprisingly sleepy.  As the jaws of defeat
felt more and more inevitable, I baked a batch of chicken wings for us
to snack on.

"Want to work on the roller coaster a bit while we watch the rest of
the game?" asked Marissa.

"That's a fine idea," I replied.  "I'm feeling _doom and gloom_ around
this game, and I could use something to take my mind off of it."

The roller coaster still looked like the picture I uploaded the other
day.  The track was crunched flat on the floor in several spots.  The
orange cable that was once meticulously fitted around each orange
rivet was detached and spooling wildly.  Some support beams were
cracked.  The mightly loop-de-loop was lying on the floor.  We took
our places around the jobsite and got to work.

"Do you want me to get the manual?" asked Marissa.

"Nah," I said confidently.  "I think we can figure it out."

"Good call," replied Marissa.  "There's nothing worse than needing the
manual again _after_ you've already built something."

Rodney helped us too.  He took a precarious station in the middle of
the roller coaster.  As he did his best to patch up the broken track,
he lost his balance, catching himself on the loop-de-loop.  His foot
crunched a piece of track that I had just fixed.

"Like a bull in a china shop," I quietly chortled.

Just as we started to get sucked into our project, the bears turned a
corner.  Our quarter back has a weird way of turning into an elite
player only in the remaining two minutes of the game.  Mitch built
some momentum slinging laser precision passes.  We scored, then forced
a turnover.

We watched the rest of the game standing on our feet in Rodney's play
corner.  The Bears moved the chains into Lions territory.  "We're in
field goal range," I muttered nervously.

Mitch took the snap.  He scrambled right, throwing a long rolling pass
to Anthony Miller in the endzone.  It was a diving touch down.  We
hollered, bumped fists, and exchanged high fives.

"Dada, take deep breaths," said Rodney, worried about the sudden
outburst.

"Thanks dude, but I'm fine.  The bears _scored_," I said.

What a game.  I can only imagine what it must have felt like to be a
Lions fan, watching your team squander a commanding 17 point lead in
the fourth quarter.  It probably felt like the exact inverse of what
it felt like to be a Bears fan during that game.

Feeling good off of a Bears victory and with the rest of the afternoon
at our disposal, Marissa made a humble request.

"So fam.  We haven't been to the board in a while," said Marissa.

"Yes, the project board has been kind of ignored this week," I
laughed.  "Want to take a look and see what we can get done?"

After heading outside, Marissa got to work mowing the lawn and filling
the new raised garden bed with dirt.  Rodney and I went on cleaning
detail, wandering around the backyard looking for rocks to pickup.
For the occasion, Rodney called me _recycling dada_.  Marissa was
_recycling mama_ and he was, you guessed it, _recycling Rodney_ - all
lazier variations of our usual work outside nicknames.

"I just moved over like four cards," said Marissa proudly.  "That felt
good."

"We underperform all week, then pull it together in the last two
minutes of the forth quarter," I said.

Marissa laughed.  "Just like the dang Bears!"

Thanks for reading.  Have a great day, everyone.
