---
title: the flaming omelette, rodney's tower, and organizing toys
banner: 2020-12-21.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday, and welcome to Christmas week.
I've got a touch of indigestion today.  This morning's theme would
have to be homemade desserts and regret.  While dropping off presents
to the family this weekend, all three houses sent us home with
delicious snacks to eat.  Perhaps it wouldn't be so bad if my family
didn't have such good taste in snacks.  Temptations abound, and these
days I have a hard time heading up to bed without first helping myself
to a giant wedge of Sarah's chocolate bobka or Kelly's red velvet
jingle balls.  And on top of everything, we're still working through
Marissa's leftover cookies.  Self control is in short supply these
days.  But then again, what good is self control around Christmas.
It's been one hell of a year, and why shouldn't we get it and eat our
cake too?

_Sip_.  What desserts do you unconsciously cram in your mouth as you
go about your day?  Do you like to eat everything that once, or do you
like to spread out the gluttony throughout the week?  And how is your
Monday going?

I'm feeling good today.  It helps that we have a short work week ahead
of us.  The virtual office is closed on Thursday and Friday, and most
of my team has taken off for the holidays.  Between the production
change freeze and the junk time between business quarters, it's
shaping up to be a quiet week.  So to make the most of it, I had
better pick a fun project in the realm of personal productivity to
work on.  My JIRA HUD could use some love, I have some org mode
capture templates burning a hole in my pocket, and if things get
really quiet I could always pick some new colors for my Google
calendar.  The potential for fun, heads-down, cozy kind of work
abounds.

And with that, I'll transition to reflecting on our long, happy
weekend.  The big adventure happened on Saturday, of course, but there
were lots of things in between worth mentioning.  For instance, there
was this flaming dessert omelette.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4My8FujN8Es" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Marissa and I stayed up late on Friday night making French toast for
the car ride.  With a bowl of leftover whisked eggs, I decided to give
French Cooking Academy's [Flambee omelette] a try.  I didn't set it up
or explain what I was doing.  While Marissa hung around the kitchen
chatting my ear off, I just very casually grabbed an extra skillet
from the rack and began.

[Flambee omelette]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgOVRnBE92o

"OK, shut the lights off," I said, reaching for the lighter.  I poured
a splash of white rum into a measuring cup and held it over the stove.
"Are you ready for the camera?"

Not knowing what to expect, Marissa took a step back and pointed her
phone.

"OK, _now_," I ordered.  I waved the lighter over the liquid.  Nothing
happened.

"That's OK," I laughed.  "I didn't expect it to work the first time."

I did a second take.  This time, the cup of rum caught fire.  A little
blue flame danced on top the surface.  I poured it over the omelette.
The fire enveloped the plate, making the dusted sugar begin to
crackle.  After letting it burn for a few seconds, I leaned it and
blew it out.

"That was honestly a lot cooler than I thought it would be," said
Marissa.

I nodded in agreement.  "Yeah, same," I laughed.  "I tried it by
myself in the kitchen earlier and it didn't look nearly as cool."

That's a good last minute dessert and a good party trick to keep in my
back pocket.

Earlier that evening, we also took Rodney to go see the Christmas
lights along John Nolan.  We patiently waited in a long line of cards
to turn into the festive display.  There, we witnessed the brightly
lit splendor of a spectacles like a dinosaur pushing his baby in a
stroller, a golfing Santa, and a gaggle of elves gathered around a
reeling slot machine (sponsored by our local Ho-Chunk Gaming casino).

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-21-lights.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 21 lights" src="/images/2020-12-21-lights.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Driving all over state lines on Saturday tired us out.  We didn't wake
up until after 11 AM.  Even Miles slept in.  But Rodney was up, and he
used the time to construct this k'nex tower.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-21-tower.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 21 tower" src="/images/2020-12-21-tower.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Rodney ran downstairs.  Marissa and I stood around the tower to admire
it.  I was excited about this development.  This is by far the biggest
thing he has ever built on his own, and it's so fun seeing the kinds
of things Rodney comes up with on his own in a creative vacuum.  Not
all of the pieces of his goofy, lopsided tower fit together neatly,
but you can't help but admire his innovation and persistence working
around the limitations he didn't understand.  In the end, it gave his
structure a silly wobble that made it feel like it belonged in the
background of a Dr. Seuss illustration.

"This kind of reminds me of that crazy smiley face he drew on his
whiteboard," I commented.

Marissa, still groggy, turned to me and recreated Rodney's goofy hand
drawn smiley face with her face.

We watched the Bears game, and after dinner the rest of the evening
was dedicated to going through Rodney's toys.  Marissa had an idea to
move some storage bins out of his closet to give Rodney more room to
keep toys in his room.  Having a knack for organization, Rodney picked
up on the change quickly and took control, parking all of his cars and
trucks along the wall following a very particular system.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2020-12-21-closet.jpg">
<img alt="2020 12 21 closet" src="/images/2020-12-21-closet.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

It was a great weekend.  Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great
week, everyone.
