---
title: super heros, phones, wrestling, and black lives matter
banner: 2020-06-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  How are you feeling on this bright and
beautiful Thursday?  This week has flown by pretty quickly, and I
suppose that could be a result of being cooped up inside for a few
days in a row.  With the furious summer rain and wind raging, we've
been forced to get creative with how we get our energy out without the
help of spending time outside.

Rodney is on a super hero kick.  For the time being, we've ditched our
Spider-man nick names for each other, and now Rodney is just _Super
Hero Rodney_, and I'm _Super Hero Dada_, etc.  And Rodney is also
under the impression that being a super hero is all about changing
outfits every few minutes and wearing clean socks on your hands.
During the early morning or his afternoon quiet time when he's alone,
he's started to change into different outfits, using his tiny plastic
stool to elevate him just high enough to reach his shirts on the rack
and pull them down.  And even more strangely, he seems to have a
preference for khacki's and the heavy long sleeve t-shirts that he
wore last winter.

"What are you wearing dude - did you change your outfit?" I said
getting Rodney out of his room.

"Super hero outfit!" He yelled.  I noticed a bulge in his right
pocket.

"And you got something in your pocket?  What's going on in here?" I
laughed.

"Super hero gloves!" he replied, struggling to fish the four pairs of
wadded up clean socks out of his tiny pant pocket.

While Rodney was channeling his energy into his own spiffy dressed,
sock slinging super hero, I channeled mine into finally sorting out
the chaotic mess of smart phone hardware in our house.  Over the
years, we had already accumulated an array of defunct chargers and
accessories, and after welcoming two more bouncing baby Pixel 4's into
our home, it was getting too much for me to handle.  I cleared off the
dining room table and dumped out my tech bin.

"Old stuff on the right, new stuff on the left," I muttered as I began
sorting through the mess of cables, adapters, and plastic bags.

I finally finished setting up our phones too.  After moving over
Marissa's passwords, we both sat at the table giving our old phones
one final glance before the big factory wipe.

"You know these old phones just feel so damn slow now," I laughed.  "I
can't believe we put up with these things for so long."

And with that, I unceremoniously wiped both phones, bagging them up
with their original factory charger.  "I think I'm going to try to
sell these," I said to Marissa.  "Even if someone only buys them for
the parts, why not, right?"

The new phones are really growing on me.  The elusive swipe navigation
is a little silly, and I still fumble over the keyboard, but the
screen is so bright and clear.  I can see every sharpened letter of
text, even while scrolling.  And the giant 120 GB hard drive is also
really nice.  You should have seen how much I was smiling copying my
18 GB music collection over in its entirety.  No more megabyte
pinching for us!

In the evening, after polishing off some frozen pizzas, Rodney and I
played with foam swords in the living room, and later some good old
fashioned wrestling on the carpet.

"OK dude," I said.  "So the point of wrestling is to try to pin the
other guy.  Lemme show you what a pin is."

I grabbed Rodney's shoulders and threw him to the ground, letting his
small frame hit the ground, but catching his head.  Rodney laughed as
I flipped him to his back.

"See how you got both shoulder blades on the ground?  That's a pin," I
explained "You're goal is to get out of it - now arch your back and
try to roll to your belly."

Rodney grunted and strained, and with some help, he rolled to his
belly.

"OK, now I'll show you how to get out of a headlock," I said, grabbing
his arm.  Rodney began to yell.

"HELP!  MOMMA!  HELP!" he strained.

"No no no, it's OK dude, just relax and breathe," I said, attempting
to soothe him.

"I.  CAN'T.  MOVE," Rodney grunted, letting his arms dangle in front
of him.  "I'M STUCK."

"I know, dude, that's what a headlock is," I chuckled.  "Here, lemme
show you - "

"HELP!  HELP!" he yelled through my instruction.  I released Rodney's
head, and he sprang to his feet, running his hands through his
disheveled hair.

"I guess we'll work on head locks later," I laughed.

I put Rodney to bed.  Against my better judgment, I allowed him to sit
on his green dinosaur during story time - but he only held on to the
privilege for the first few pages of the book.

"OK, Dinosaur goes on the ground," I scolded.

Rodney squirmed, and began to whine.  "Why?"

"It was the bouncing, dude," I said.  "You can't bounce during story
time."

Marissa and I met on the back porch for a beer.  Our deck chairs were
soaked with rain, so we just stood by the wall and watched the rain
clouds swirling in the night sky.

"So what do you think of the mayor's video?" asked Marissa with a
smile.

Earlier that day, our mayor had been caught privately sending a pretty
embarrassing video expressing sympathy to the police department.  She
even went as far as to password protect it.  Apparently, some people
associated with the police were offended at how "softball" her
sympathy was and decided to share the video on Facebook to humiliate
her.

In the video, the mayor dramatically removes her mask a few seconds
after the camera starts rolling, and proceeds to say things like "I
know you are not what the protesters say you are" and "It must be so
hard standing out there in your riot gear and get rocks thrown at
you", which looks especially bad after she's repeatedly pledged
solidarity with the protests and promised to be open to dramatic
change with how we operate the police.

"It's amazing how she's managed to just piss off everyone with this,"
laughed Marissa.

"Oh isn't that wild?" I replied.  "So here's my take - after you get
past the sheer embarrassment of this video, I think this was just a
uniquely poor execution of the typical centrist thing we see most
democrats doing.  For most democrats, their knee jerk reaction is to
empathize with social justice issues, but at the end of the day I
don't think they're even close to being willing to make fundamental
changes to how we use police in this country."

I took an angry swig of beer, continuing.  "I mean look at Biden - his
idea of police reform is 'teaching them to aim for the legs'."

"You know I got some really mean comments on that painting I made?"
added Marissa.  She had made a painting featuring a prominent Black
Power fist, and had been publicly vocal about her solidarity with
Black Lives Matter.  "One lady was like, 'I am so disappointed, you
were my favorite creator and mentor', and another lady just said 'do
not be a sheep'.  I haven't even looked at my follower count."

I laughed.  "That's fascinating.  Oh, you're definitely going to lose
some good will over this.  But hey, that's a sign that you're doing
the right thing.  You're certainly doing more than I am - I'm proud of
you."

Inspired by Marissa, I'll also throw my hat in the ring.  I have
solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement.  I'm equally sobered
and grateful for the eye opening stories that have come to light in
all this.  I'm learning so much right now, and I think the best thing
we can do is to just shut up and keep learning - learn as much as we
can and focus all of our anger into actively changing the way we see
things.

Marissa smiled.  "Oh, and one lady told me that Black Lives Matter was
just a scam set up by _George Soros_ - do you know who he is?"

I laughed loudly, and rolled my eyes.  "You should be glad they
stopped following you."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day today, everyone.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/rest-in-power.png">
    <img alt="rest in power" src="/images/rest-in-power.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>
