---
title: blanket forts, fish bones, and tiger king
banner: 2020-04-02.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  Just as the month of April
was beginning, our work week is almost over.  Thursday is a great day
for taking a step back to make finer adjustments.  What did I want to
accomplish on Monday?  What should I spend less time doing?  Am I
working too much or too little?  Thursdays are a great day to ask
these kinds of questions, ensuring by the time we get to Friday, we're
primed for a long, relaxing weekend.

Yesterday, after concluding our morning coffee break, Marissa built a
blanket fort with Rodney around the kitchen table.  I finally got to
see the end result around lunch time when I wandered downstairs to
heat up some pasta.  Rodney, scurrying around the dining room floor on
his hands and needs, saw me enter the room and sprung to his feet.

"DADA, come inside look at my fort," he said taking me by the hand.  I
set down my coffee mug and carefully climbed inside.  Where Rodney's
fort was lacking with space, it made up for it in decor.  He had his
blanket and pillow, his stuffed animals, his toy computer, and he even
had a little bluetooth speaker softly playing the _wiggles radio_.

"Dude, this is so cozy in here!" I said, shifting to a more
comfortable position on my side.  Rodney beamed, spinning his toy
computer screen around so I could see what he was working on.  "Oh
nice dude, you're playing the 'guess the animals' game.  How classic!

After leaving Rodney's fort, I scooped some leftover pasta in a bowl
and flung it into the microwave.  "It's Wednesday today," said Marissa
leaning her head into the kitchen.  "You can have a beer with lunch!"

"AH, yes, thank you.  I almost forgot," I said, grabbing a bottle of
Amstel Light out of the fridge.  Marissa set Rodney up with a slice of
pizza.  "You can multi-task for lunch today," said Marissa, setting a
plate of leftover pizza in front of him.  "But only because your new
toys came in the mail."

Rodney and I picked at our food, playing with his new building toys at
the table.  Rodney made a long chain, then crumpled it together in one
congealed mass of colorful plastic.  He held it up to my face,
pretending they were goggles.

"OK, as much as I'd like to just hang out in your blanket fort and
play with awesome toys, I have a meeting to get to," I said rising to
my feet.  I grabbed another beer out of the fridge and headed upstairs
to finish out the work day.

Around five, I peeked out of our bedroom and met eyes with Rodney, who
was finished with his nap and ready to come downstairs.  "Want to help
me in the kitchen, dude?" I asked.  Rodney nodded, trotting down the
stairs behind me.

The recipe I had picked for the evening was Chef John's
[Shelter-In-Place Salmon Loaf], calling for a large can of red sockeye
salmon.  Rodney and I dumped the contents of the can into a bowl,
taking a moment to marvel at how unappetizing it looked.  As Chef John
explains in the video, canned salmon is a mix of meat and bones, but
the bones are just about as tender as the meat.  So hopefully, after
crushing and mixing everything together with breadcrumbs, beaten eggs,
butter, and onions, even the unnapetizing bits would be undetectable.

Rodney fiddled around at the cutting board while I beat the eggs with
a whisk.  After four minutes, my arm got tired.  "I should have
probably used an egg beater for this," I said aloud.  "But at this
point, I may as well finish by hand."  Breathing heavily, focused on
whipping the whites into stiff peaks, I stuck it out, and ten minutes
later I finally had the desired consistency.  "There!" I said to
Rodney.  Rodney stared at me blankly, chewing a piece of mozzarella I
sliced off for him as a snack.

I folded the egg whites into the salmon mixture and poured it into a
baking dish.  Rodney ran outside to play, and while the salmon loaf
baked, I sauteed a side of cabbage and onions.

"Five minute warning!" I called out from the kitchen.  I heard Marissa
stir from the couch.  I carefully removed the baking dish from the
oven and flipped it over on the plate.  Half the loaf fell out, the
other half still adhered snugly to the dish.  I hissed a four letter
word under my breath, scraping the rest of the loaf out of the plate
before we all sat down at the table for dinner.

"So this is kind of a weird one, let me know what you think," I said
digging into my own plate.  Marissa thoughtfully chewed the first
bite.

"It's better than I thought," she said.  A few minutes later, Marissa
winced, squeamishly scooting a bright white fish vertebrae off of her
plate.

"Ope," I said.  "Must have missed one - sorry about that.  They're
totally edible, don't worry about it."  Marissa nodded, and a few
minutes later, she winced again.  This time, rolling another fish bone
out of her mouth and onto the plate."

"I'm sorry," she said.  "I don't like this one."  I boisterously
laughed.  "Yeah come to think of it, " I said.  "As someone who
struggles with odd textures, this whole meal must be a waking
nightmare.  You know I was pretty sure you would have lost it after
finding the first fish bone."

"But look!  I did pretty well, I finished most of it," said Marissa,
defending herself.

"It's OK.  This can be a one time thing.  But the good news is this is
really healthy, so we can pig out on snacks tonight."

After a skype call with Gigi and putting Rodney to bed, I cleaned out
our fridge while Marissa sat at the dining room table painting.  It
felt good to take extra time cleaning out our fridge, freezer, and
pantry.  I sliced and washed the celery and carrots to save space and
wiped out each of the drawers and shelves.

Marissa and I concluded the night by watching the last episode of
Tiger King.  I think I'm finally ready to take sides.

Oh, and **spoilers ahead** if you haven't finished _Tiger King_.

"So let me get this straight," I blurted out as the credits played.
"Joe Exotic went to jail for hiring someone to murder Carole, but no
jail for the guy who was actually going to do it?  Or for the guy who
suggested the whole plan?"

"Yeah, well they also got him for all the tigers he euthanized and
all the illegal breeding," chimed Marissa.

"They wouldn't have found any of that stuff unless they had an excuse
to raid him.  Doc is right, that murder for hire charge was BS, it was
just an excuse to raid his facility."

"Yeah, the show was good, because it makes him look like the only one
in all this who wasn't hiding anything," said Marissa.

If anyone is keeping score, put me down for team Joe Exotic.  Thanks
for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful Thursday.

[Shelter-In-Place Salmon Loaf]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXv5OOj9BT4
