---
title: waking up, gumbo, and bread accidents
banner: 2020-08-03.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday, and welcome to the new week.
Hope you're ramping up for your day without any major issues.

This week, I've started the slow trek back to my regular sleep cycle.
And even though I only woke up a half hour earlier than usual, I
forgot about how much time I used to have in the morning.  The house
was so still and peaceful, and despite the batch of weekend dishes
still littering the sink and a wreckage of dog toys, action figures,
and legos scattered on the living room floor, everything seemed so
perfect.

Without coffee, it was a struggle at first, but after putting on a
Frank Ocean album I began to slowly wind up for the day.  I Started a
load of dishes, hand washed all the parts to the coffee machine and
brewed two pots, took out the garbage, weighed _Krang_ into a bowl and
rinsed out his jar before a fresh morning feeding, and finally slumped
into a comfortable seat at the computer with a well-deserved fresh cup
of coffee.

Sleeping in this summer, I grew to resent all the steps in the morning
routine.  When you're rushing through all these things, trying to have
as much time to write as possible before the rest of the house wakes
up, you grew to resent all these steps.  But I get it now.  Back when
I was _een vroege vogel_ (Dutch for "an early bird"), I used to find
this ritual relaxing.

In conclusion, it's good to be a morning person again.

_Sip_.  Marissa and I had a late night last night.  After a quick
coding session I joined her downstairs to play video games while she
wrapped up studio work.  Afterwards, we finished the last few minutes
of her movie pick, Bo Burnham's _what_.  And with just a little bit of
time left in the evening, we decided to get a start on the next movie.
Strategically waiting for Marissa's eyes to leave the TV screen, I
quickly selected _Candyman_, a horror film about a lored hook-handed
killer that stalked people in the Cabrini Green housing projects in
Chicago during the early nineties.

"Did you pick Candyman?" Asked Marissa, panicking once she realized I
made my selection.  "Shoot - I feel like you picked Candyman."

"No, I didn't pick Candyman," I said, trying to suppress a devilish
grin.  The words _CANDYMAN_ flashed on the screen and we both bursted
into laughter.  The movie sucked us in, and we stayed up much later
than planned.

"Man, older horror movies are way scarier," said Marissa as we stood
up, brushing the popcorn crumbs away.  "They just seem so much more
unpredictable."

In other news, I got excited about a dinner recipe that does a great
job hitting the Sunday evening sweetspot where you feel like eating a
big meal but don't feel like putting a lot of work into it.  Trolling
around YouTube, I caught a new video from cajun chef Isaac Toups, and
that put me in a mood to try out his [gumbo recipe].  "Let it roll for
several hours, hell, even leave it on the stove overnight, it'll be
just fine," he says in his affable Louisiana accent.

I didn't leave it on the stove overnight, but I did throw it together
just after lunch time, crisping up some chicken thighs under the
broiler and sweating diced vegetables in a hot chocolate colored roux.
Next came the beer, chicken broth, sausage, and the deboned chicken.
Like with most soups and broths, I grossly overestimated how much
space I had to work with, and it was a little on the chunkier side.
But as instructed, I did indeed _let it roooooll_ for several hours.
And in the evening, with naught but a simple batch of white rice to
make, I was free to lounge around and rough house with Rodney until it
was dinner time.

I also had a happy little cooking accident while throwing together a
loaf of bread.  My recipe calls for 538 grams of cold water and 652
grams of flour.  In between each ingredient, I take trips to the
kitchen while chatting with Marissa.  But the other night, while
mixing the dough, I must have spaced out, and with the number _538_
ear marked in my brain, I only mixed in 538 grams of flour.

I noticed something was different while mixing the dough and water
together, a process that normally takes a few minutes of prodding and
hand-stirring.  The flour and water mixed suspiciously quickly.

As I folded it in the evening, the dough felt lighter.  But I
persisted, making sure to give the gluten their due exercise.

"It's way lighter," I said, cutting into the accidental science
experiment after taking it out of the oven.  "Which makes sense.  The
percentage of water is higher because I shorted the flour."

Taking her first bite, Marissa's eyes practically bulged out of her
head.  "Hot take.  I like this bread way better."

And I'm not sure if it was the scant amount of flour in the recipe, or
just our joy from discovering a tastier remix of the usual recipe, but
gripped with fresh bread fever we almost finished the whole loaf last
night.  Only about an inch and a half from the butt remains, and
really we left that just so we wouldn't have to wake up with the shame
of _literally_ finishing the entire loaf ourselves last night.

I find it kind of funny.  I remember how much trial and
experimentation it took to arrive at the 538-652 recipe.  Just figures
that a complete accident would yield something I like better.

Meanwhile, hacking on the new blog framework continues.  Sprawling
past 500 lines of code, this project stopped feeling like a
_minimalist_ proof of concept, but since then I've kind of fallen in
love with the problem and I'm enjoying myself.  Last night, I was
rambling to Marissa over a beer about the code behind the "next post"
and "previous post" links at the bottom of each entry.

"It's called a linked list," I explained.  "It's a list built one
segment at a time, each item simply attached to the next.  It's a
little harder to write, but ultimately easier to use."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Monday, everyone.

[gumbo recipe]: https://youtu.be/76JXtB7JFQY
