---
title: depleted supplies, grand slams, and the new pajama meltdown
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Hope this entry finds you well, and that you
too are having a quiet morning.  Today, I'm astounded with how much
extra time I had this morning.  Before the rest of the house stirred
awake, I've already cleaned the kitchen, wiped down the coffee bar,
started a new grocery list, and I even had time to wrestle with one of
my Plex libraries that randomly started malfunctioning.  I'm bringing
that smug _ealier than thou_ energy this morning, so to speak.

And I credit all the extra time to a new simple trick Marissa and I
started doing to get us to go to bed earlier.  I've set my phone alarm
to go off at 12:10 AM on Sunday through Thursday nights - our cue to
button up the house for the night and head upstairs.  Naturally, my
song choice was "Closing Time".

With my phone propped up against the banister, I shooed the dogs
outside for a final bathroom break, we turned off all the lights on
the main floor, and we were in bed by 12:30.  I would almost think
some congratulations were in order if I - you know - weren't an adult
who was supposed to be going to bed at a reasonable time anyway.

_Sip_.  So how was your Monday?  I don't know about you, but I had one
of those days where all the supplies in our house that I stock about
once of month were suddenly depleted.  Off the top of my head, we're
running low on toothpaste, paper towels, ziploc bags, garbage bags,
glasses cleaner, and Windex.  On top of that, we're also at peak
garbage stress.  Last week, a bunch of online deliveries converged,
and the sudden swell of garbage and cardboard brought our home garbage
pipeline to a screeching halt.  With both our cans stuffed full, I
proceeded to line up several black garbages bags along the side our
fence (and now that I write this, I realize that's probably what
happened to all of our garbage bags).

Over coffee before Rodney woke up, Marissa and I hatched a battle plan
at the dining room table.

"I'll make a Target order.  I'll have them just mail everything that
they don't have in store," said Marissa, taking a tired sip of coffee.

_More mail.  More cardboard.  More garbage._

"We're also out of milk and juice," I added.  "Want to order some
breakfast from McDonald's or something?  Then we can order him milk."

Marissa retrieved her phone and swiftly opened _Grubhub_.  "Can we do
Denny's instead?" she asked.  I nodded and relocated to the computer
to put in a grocery order.

"I'm just getting us three _Lumberjack Slams_," she said.  "And they
don't have drinks - Rodney can just have water, right?"

I began to laugh.  "That's the whole reason we were ordering
breakfast," I mocked, spinning around in the computer chair.  "We're
not doing this just for the sake of getting Denny's."  Marissa began
to laugh.

"Good point, wait - they do have drinks.  OK I'll get him some milk,"
she said.

"Oh excellent - Denny's is saved," I teased.

Getting Rodney out of bed, I decided have a little fun with him.
"Sssh," I warned.  "Mom is still sleeping.  And we're out of milk and
juice - you just have to drink _water_."

Rodney nodded.  I could see him trying to hide his disappointment.  He
doesn't drink coffee, so I suspect that to him, going without a cold
glass of milk in the morning is like me skipping coffee - unthinkable.

A grin spread across his face as he entered the dining room.  "Momma's
awake?" he said sleepily.  Marissa opened her arms over a table of
three freshly delivered Grand Slams and a chilly sippie cup of milk.

Later that day, Rodney and I would take a trip to Woodman's.  We've
developed a small friendship with the guy that brings us our
groceries.  Since he always points out the Bears sticker on our back
window, Rodney just calls him _Bears_.

"WHAT'S UP LITTLE MAN!" he said, approaching our trunk.

"BEARS!  LOOK WHAT I GOT?" yelled Rodney, straining to hold up his
Highlights magazine out to the side.

"OOOH, what you got?" he asked, excitedly.  Six feet from each other,
Rodney and _Bears_ practically read three full pages of the magazine
together before he shut our trunk and waved us on.

Back at home, after putting the groceries away, I got to cooking
dinner.  We had some fried cod and roasted vegetables with a butter
cream sauce.  After dinner, we watched the highly anticipated new Dude
Perfect video, and I went upstairs to put Rodney to bed.  As he put
his toys and books away, I began to unpack his new pajamas.  Rodney
noticed them immediately, his eyes fixed on the new strange pair of
pajamas like a hostile, unwelcome invader in his wardrobe.

"I don't want to wear these," said Rodney beginning to sob.  "They
make me sad."

"I know," I said patiently.  "It's OK to cry, but you have to wear
them."

Rodney waled, stretching out the simple act of getting dressed into
fifteen angry, tearful minutes.  When he had finally calmed down, we
read a story and I put him to bed.

"You handled that a lot better than I would have," said Marissa.

"Oh thanks," I said, shutting the door of his room.  "I was ready for
it this time.  My goal was just to show him how crying and throwing a
fit didn't accomplish anything."

Rodney's room already fell silent.  He was fast asleep minutes after
shutting his door.

"Other than tiring him out," Marissa laughed.

"You should have seen how he was walking," I said, beginning to
quietly snicker.  "After he had them on, it was like he was trying to
move as little as possible.  He walked to the bathroom hunched over
without straightening his legs."

I mimicked the strange, stubborn walk through the hallway into the
bathroom.  Marissa dipped her head into Miles room so her snickering
wouldn't be heard.

I avoid teasing my son at all costs.  I try not to use things that
upset him for a cheap blog laugh, but today I make an exception for
the new pajama meltdown.  The image of Rodney with a stubborn frown,
angry squinting eyes, squat walking to the bathroom because he thinks
that even just straightening his back and legs would be an undeserved
endorsement of his shiny new colorful alphabet jammies - it was all
just too funny.  And I think that if he were in my shoes, he would
think it was funny too.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
