---
title: fresh towels, movie quotes, and the prize cup
banner: 2020-09-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

I snapped this picture of Rodney while he was clambering around the
new flower box.  Being positioned so close to the deck, it makes for a
pretty cool obstacle.

"Smile dude," I said, holding my camera over him from the railing.

"No dada," said Rodney.  "I don't want to smile."  Instead, he gave me
a thumbs up and a steely glare.

Good morning, everyone.  How is your Tuesday going so far?  Marissa
and I are up and at it, ready to battle another weekday.  This
morning, while waiting for the first pot of coffee to brew, I finished
cleaning up after last nights dinner.

Cleaning up today was a delight.  Marissa ordered some fresh new
towels for our kitchen, and they make a world of difference.  It's
funny how you can use some things so often that you forget how much
more effective they were when they were brand new, and how you can
lose track of how often things need to be replaced.

And speaking of fresh towels, Marissa and I diverge on how we treat
newly unwrapped products.  Here's the question: when you take
something out of the box or packaging, do you begin using it right
away?  Or do you first run it through the dishwasher or washing
machine?

Marissa cleans everything before first use.  The new towels she
ordered arrived here a few days ago, but I wouldn't see them until
they emerged from our dryer yesterday.

Sometimes I tease her for it.  "Right now they're the cleanest they'll
ever be," I say.  I'm an optimist - not a pre-washer.  Whether it's a
new t-shirt right off the rack, a stack of cups, or even silverware,
I'd be happy putting it to use on the way out of the store.  If it
were up to me, I'd unbox the towels and hang them up next to the sink
while throwing out the old ones.  I suppose with COVID and all, it's
probably best to err on the side of over-washing, just for the sake of
decontamination.  I can't wait to go back to being my gross,
quasi-sanitary true self.

_Sip_.  How did your Monday go?  Things got off to a rocky start for
us after our plan to pick up food from Woodman's fell through.  I came
downstairs later that morning for a coffee refill, and Rodney was
quick to remind me of our predicament.

"Morning dada," he said.  "We have no milk, and no juice.  JUST
water."  He took a swig from his sippie cup to emphasize his point.

"Oof," I said.  "The supply chain is struggling, huh?  So you're just
having Miralax flavored water?  We have other stuff to drink, dude.
How about a biertje?  Do you want a biertje with your crappy bar?"

Rodney laughed, wrinkling his nose.

"I could water down a splash of heavy cream?  _See?  Who needs a
cow?_" I turned to Marissa, hoping she would catch the movie
reference.  "_Who needs a cow?_" I repeated, squinting my eyes and
scrunching up my face.

"What?" said Marissa.

"I'm Ren√©e Zellweger.  From _Cinderella Man_," I said, annoyed.  "_Who
needs a cow?_"

"Oh," said Marissa sleepily.  "Yeah, good one."

Yesterday was a nice, quiet work day.  While I wasn't downstairs
bothering my family with lame movie quotes, I was upstairs quietly
hacking on some generated kubernetes configs.  Coming back from a long
paternity leave, my brain has been running hot in _learn-new-things_
mode, so it goes without saying that working on something familiar to
me was a nice change of pace.  Full screen editor.  New config on the
left, target config on the right.  Change, compile, compare.  Repeat
until lunch.

For dinner, I got to work preparing white bean and chicken breast
chili, which was for lack of a stocked fridge and pantry negotiated
down to kidney bean and chicken thigh chili.  Marissa returned home
from our emergency Hy-Vee run with the key ingredient to my cornbread.

"Hy-Vee is just as terrible as it was when we left," she said,
exhausted.  Marissa told me about how the lady gave her a belabored
excuse for why the order wasn't ready.  We joke that we can't go to
Hy-Vee without learning another customers name, and the stereotype
holds true.

"Thanks for getting the stuff," I said.  "So we have the big pickup
tomorrow at the same time.  That order has Tuesday, Wednesday, and
_technically_ tonight's dinner too," I laughed.

We ate dinner, goading Rodney to finish his meal quickly so he'd have
time to play.  Marissa leaned on her new prize cup incentive.

"So what is this 'prize cup'?"  I asked as we ate.

"Well, dada," said Marissa.  "Each time Rodney does something good, he
puts a pom-pom in the prize cup.  And when he fills up the prize
cup..."

"I GET A PRIZE!" Rodney proclaimed.

I got up from my chair to examine the prize cup.  There were already
four little pom-poms rolling around in the bottom.  I gave them a firm
press with my thumb.

"It's a good thing these pom-poms are so squishy," I teased.  "We can
probably get away with packing these down for a few weeks, even after
it reaches the top."

Piano lessons followed dinner.  Taking a play from Marissa's success,
I made a more focused effort to make it entertaining and positive -
even pandering to some degree.  "Make sure he feels like you're
working on it _together_," she advised.

I put a piece of tape on middle C.  "Do you want to meet my friends?"
I asked.  "This is _do_."

I pressed the key down and sang _do_.  I pressed it harder, singing
_doooooo_ again with an embellished operatic voice.  I acted like I
was running out of breath.  Rodney laughed.

I also introduced Rodney to _re_ and _mi_.  Once we had the three keys
down, we called Marissa up for an impromptu recital.  Rodney turned on
a drum track, and following my lead, played _do, re, me_ in sequence.

"I play piano a little longer?" pleaded Rodney.  Marissa and I cracked
a smile.

"Nope, all done for today," I replied.  "Hey, now you have something
to look forward to on Wednesday."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day everyone.
