---
title: movies, fixation, and my supreme pizza experiment
banner: 2020-12-17.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Thursday, and welcome to morning
journaling time.  I hope you're feeling awake and ready to face the
work day.  I don't know about you, but I think I have at least one
Thursday left in me before Christmas break, so let's get it on.

I got a good night's sleep last night.  In our ongoing film study,
Marissa and I have been watching Captain Phillips this week, and I
think all the unresolved tension was giving me some stress dreams.
When my brain should have been shut off, I was instead fighting off
Somalian pirates.  But now that we've finished the movie, it's like my
inner psyche can finally stop thinking about the movie.

Captain Phillips exceeded my expectations (the movie, not the actual
captain).  To me, the emergency protocols were the star of the movie.
Everything the crew had to do leading up to and during the attack was
fascinating.  Also, the magic touch of Tom Hanks helped.  Going to try
to steer clear of spoilers here, but at the end of the movie when
they're finally pulling Captain Phillips to safety, the camera follows
him getting helped onto a boat, taken inside, and examined by doctors.
Tom Hanks is in shock, and what he's able to do just with his face,
body language, and stuttering is so emotionally moving, it's
impossible to look away from the screen - even though there was pretty
much nothing left to resolve in the plot.

The movie faded to black.  The credits rolled.  "Top that one,"
taunted Marissa, flipping me the TV remote.  I wasn't even going to
try to top it.  After a movie like that, it's best to just watch
something terrible to cleanse the pallet.  And so that's the story of
how I selected Tim Burton's _Batman Forever_ as our next pick.  Even
in the mere twenty minutes we had before our bedtime to get started,
the film reached levels of ridiculousness that I had blotted out from
my memory.

"I used to think this was the coolest movie in the world," I laughed.
"Val Kilmer just looks like he's trick or treating or something.  They
don't even attempt to hide that he can't move his neck in that thing
at all."

Tommy Lee Jones plays Two Face as if he actually wanted to play the
joker.  Nicole Kidman plays the bawdy damsel only appears on screen to
sexually harass Val Kilmer.  And the guy who they found to play Alfred
truly looks like they just pulled a random old guy off the street.
Maybe that's unfair - we've all probably been spoiled by Michael
Caine's kind eyes and velvety voice.

Gotta give it up to Jim Carrey, though.  That guy plays a good
villain, and I'm wondering when he's going to get snatched up by the
ever expanding Marvel movie universe.  He's fantastic as the riddler,
which reminded Marissa and I that he was also fantastic as
Dr. Robotnik in the new sonic movie.

_Sip._  What movies have been getting your through these tired winter
days leading up to Christmas?  And how was your Thursday?

I had some good focus time yesterday, but it's too bad that I spent
most of it just chasing down a single elusive bug.  Most of my time
was spent creating test github repos and trying to explain some
unexpected behavior in the way our github actions were running.
Staying on the bug all day, I guess it put me in kind of a fixating
mood.  After work, Marissa brought her phone to me, telling me she had
a problem getting new music onto her player.  Standing beside my desk
waiting to leave on her run, she silently watched me mutter and stab
around her phone, trying to find the issue.

"OK, this is not happening," I snipped, handing her phone back.  "I'll
have to try when you get back."

Letting out a deep sigh, I finally rose from my chair and trotted
downstairs to get started on dinner.  The flustering continued.

"Hey do you remember if we got whole chicken in our last order?" I
asked Marissa while she was tying on her running shoes.

"Did you check the freezer?" she asked.

"Yeah," I sighed.  "Hold on let me check if I actually ordered it."

Minutes later, I confirmed that I had forgotten to actually add the
chicken to our order.  Sometimes on Hy-Vee's site I'll search for
something only to forget to add it to the cart.  The missing chicken
threw a really big monkey wrench into meal planning - not only was I
planning on making chicken breasts yesterday, but I was also going to
carve up the rest for chicken gumbo the next day.

"Can I make pizza tonight?" I asked.  Marissa gave a surprised smile.

"Yeah, I think I feel like pizza," she replied.

Little did she know I had a special pizza planned.  Wanting to test
out some theories I had, I set out to make my own version of a supreme
pizza: mushrooms, bell peppers, and red onion.

The first problem I attacked was the bell peppers.  They're always
just a little too cold and crunchy.  So to remedy that, I peeled the
skin off the bell pepper and diced it up very small - easy enough.

Second problem was the mushrooms.  To me, this is the biggest problem
of the supreme pizza.  Most implementations I've tried just slice up
the mushrooms and throw them on top, trusting they'll cook through
with the pizza.  This is almost never the case.  There's just too much
water in mushrooms to get cooked out in the brief time the pizza is on
the pizza stone, even at pizza cooking temperature, so the mushrooms
will remain raw and filled with tepid water.  The other issue with the
raw mushroom approach is that the mushrooms don't get enough salt.

So to address this, I pan friend the mushrooms ahead of time.  I
quartered them up and threw them in a non stick pan with ripping hot
olive oil, generously seasoning with salt and pepper.  This gave the
mushrooms a chance to dry out, concentrate their flavor, and pick up
some good seasoning along the way.  I've also noticed that mushrooms
tend to give up more water as they cool down, so before adding them to
the pizza I left them in a strainer over a bowl to catch the extra
moisture.

Both approaches worked.  The pre-cooked mushrooms dried out nicely and
even roasted over in the oven.  The tiny pieces of peeled bell pepper
softened and carmelized.  I rode a nice wave of _pizza smugness_ for
the rest of the night.

Rodney and Marissa took to the kitchen to bake cookies for the rest of
the night.  Rodney and I shared some eggnog before we sent him off to
bed.  Marissa acted like a grumpy waitress at a late night diner while
brining us our bedtime snack.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful day.
