---
title: january, runbooks, roux, and waterboarding
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! From the bottom of my heart, I'd like to wish
you a happy Friday. I like to make a big deal out of Friday. Even though
it occurs every week, I think making it through another week is always
something worth celebrating.

Another week in January, no less. Isn't January brutal? There's nothing
to look forward to in January. The weather punishes you for going
outside with biting wind and treacherous ice on your stairs. Your car
takes longer to warm up, and ice and salt collects around your wheels.
In season fruits like tomatoes and watermelon are a distant memory, and
you really have nothing to look forward to - and yet you have to carry
forward all the commitments you made on January first. Maybe you've
committed to eating healthy. Maybe you've committed to drinking less
alcohol. Maybe you committed to picking up a new skill or hobby, and in
this time of January it seems you have to stare it in the face and have
to ask, "Is this really something I can do." Anyone can commit to
anything during the Holidays. January sucks because you actually have to
follow through with these things. So I celebrate Fridays. We made it
through another work week. Our society is still functioning, and we can
all relax this weekend before trying again on Monday.

At work, I finally wrapped up the document I was working on. I don't
know if I mentioned this yet, but I was preparing a *runbook* for a test
we'll be executing today. A "runbook" is kind of an industry term for an
instruction sheet intended for someone who is already familiar with the
overall process, so it's going to be skimpy on the context and
explanations, but curt and copy-paste friendly. Later this afternoon (on
a Friday night of all times), one of my teammates will sign on line to
intentionally take down our service in our isolated staging environment.
He'll run the commands right out of my runbook while communicating to a
number of other teams throughout our company so they have a chance to
see how their service tolerates the outage. And if I did my job right,
he can do so while barely paying attention. It's a Friday night, after
all, I think he deserves that much.

But needless to say, I was proud of the completeness of the document. My
role at my company has changed over time, and I've had to walk through a
lot of shoddily documented procedures for services which I wasn't even
aware of. I'm more specialized these days, but my long tenure as a
general *operations* person allowed me to develop good taste when it
comes to writing instructions. Keep things simple. don't explain *why* -
stick to *how*. Make it easy to copy-paste - but also make it easy to
pull apart and figure out where something went wrong.

Spending the morning typing, my back was starting to feel a little sore,
so I went for a walk. It was far too cold to walk outside, so instead I
went for a stroll around the office. I walked up and down the stairwell,
walked along the outside windows, and stopped to stare at the capitol
building.

I worked through the afternoon, then joined some of my coworkers on the
eighth floor for happy hour. I finished a half pale ale while we
chatted, then left to catch my bus. Back at home, Marissa took me up on
my offer to go to Hy-Vee together as a family. "I just cleaned our
fridge last night, and we could use some new snacks," I said, knowing
that there was little chance a second trimester pregnant lady would turn
down that offer. "Can you drive? I want to eat a muffin in the car," she
negotiated.

We strolled around Hy-Vee, picking up potatoes, kale, bacon, and
mushrooms. I usually make stamppot with sausage, but following Marissa's
wishes, I decided to try it with mushrooms instead. Back at home, after
unloading the car, I got to work peeling potatoes, slicing bacon, and
washing kale leaves. Rodney helped in the kitchen too, scooting our
sturdy kitchen ladder over to the stove where I had some butter melting
for a roux. "Now you need to keep the roux moving," I warned him,
wrapping his small hand around the whisk. "Keep it going until it's the
color of coffee." I knew there was zero chance he was following along,
but I think he took to the sense of urgency. He wildly flung the whisk
around the pan while I supervised.

We killed the heat on the roux and shifted focus to drain the potatoes.
I handed Rodney the potato masher, and he looked visibly relieved to
work with things he understood. "Just smash the potatoes, dude. There's
no wrong way to do this," I said. Rodney wildly slammed the masher
against the bottom of the Dutch oven, sending some chunks of moist
potato flying across the stove. "That's no big deal dude, just mash
'em," I goaded.

We sat around the table and ate dinner. It had been a long week for me
and Marissa. We quietly wolfed down our dinner. Rodney was the only one
at the table keeping a steady conversation going, delving into his
favorite topic of taking his cousins to a water park.

After dinner, I gave Rodney a bath, changed him into his pajamas, and
read him a story. Just before bed, he asked for a glass of water.
Fearing we were about to begin another long round of bedtime
filibustering, I urged him to stay in his room. "Just stay here - I'll
get you a cup of water and you can drink it in bed," I said leaving his
room. Rodney hesitantly reached for the glass and swiftly tipped it at
his mouth, but being in bed, he miscalculated the angle of his head and
sent water all over his head. Tears were had, but after a quick pajama
swap and some bed sheet re arrangement, we were back in business.

"Did he accidentally waterboard himself again?" Marissa asked as I
trudged down the stairs into our living room and slinked onto the couch.
"Yeahâ€¦ poor guy," I replied.

I spent the rest of the evening on the couch. As I lie under the
blanket, it was almost as if the tired muscles in my back were singing
praises, knowing their job was done for the day. Ziggy climbed into my
lab, and I coaxed her under the blanket with me for a long nap.

Hope you all have a wonderful day today.

