---
title: funk, sausage, and bus stories
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you're doing well today. I'm feeling clear
headed and strong this morning, and this Collectivo Brazilian blend of
coffee is hitting me just right. This morning, since I'm working from
home for the day, I skipped the usual shower, and I had plenty of time
to quietly sit at my desk with coffee and get my thoughts together. To
pair with the no-shower day, I'm wearing my favorite pair of sweats and
my 'hide-my-greasy-hair' beanie. I'm already getting the sense that I'm
not going anywhere today.

Yesterday morning, after finishing my blog post and kicking of the
script that blasts it out to the Internet, I foolishly tried running a
second script that syncs my notes to my work computer. With my journal
saved within my notes, they stepped on each other, and the three extra
minutes it took me to fix things caused me to miss my bus. Just as I was
walking around the corner, I saw the number 15 bus pull away. I don't
miss my bus often, but the next time I do, I won't be so worried. The 6
runs only five minutes behind it, and it mysteriously reaches the square
at the same time as the 15. Don't ask me why it works, but it does.

Work was sort of a thinking day. I spent the morning mauling over the
task I had taken that week, and after talking it over with the team and
anguishing about it in our slack channel, I decided to stick it back in
the backlog and take something else. I get kind of restless when I go a
few days without finishing something concrete. Being Wednesday without
anything to show for the week, the situation has put me in a minor funk.

I would love to be able to finish the same amount of work every day, but
I guess that's just not how work *works*. Some weeks, you do more work
than you'd normally do in a whole month, and some weeks feel like they
slip away without anything to show for it.

I took a break at 11 to find a quiet place to eat my chicken noodle
soup. After gulping it down and cracking open an energy drink, I spent
some time hacking on a home project - this week's IT project card that I
was falling behind on. Karl and Heath joined me at the table, and later
Julia, so I shut my laptop and chatted with them. Karl too has a kid on
the way, and we're both departing for paternity leave within a month of
each other. When I had my fill of small talk, I went for a quick walk
around the square, then returned to my desk and worked through the rest
of the afternoon.

I jumped off the bus, and Rodney was waiting for me by the back porch.
He flung open the door, letting the dogs out, then ran down the porch
stairs in his bare feet to greet me by the fence. "I missed you dude!" I
yelled hoisting him into the air.

As I unpacked my things, Marissa and I chatted about dinner plans. "I
feel like making stamppot," I said. "You always feel like making
stamppot," Marissa laughed. "Instead of sausage, can we do it with
chicken?" she added.

I rolled my eyes. "Then it's no longer a one pot meal. What if we do
chicken sausage?" I countered. Marissa wandered around in thought, then
conceded. "OK," she said. "I'll try the chicken sausage."

Rodney and I went to Hy-Vee together. He was in a great mood, and lately
the cereal aisle gets him really pumped. I asked him for his help in
restocking our to-go breakfast cubbie by the coffee bar, and he jumped
on the opportunity to pick out some cereal bars. We went with chocolate
oatmeal, and just to even things out, I picked up some fruit bars and an
extra box of stroopwafels.

Back at home, I got to peeling potatoes and rinsing kale, and Marissa
joined me in the kitchen to chat. "I'm in kind of a funk this week at
work," I shared, as she sat on the shelf beside the counter,
empathetically listening. Sometimes, just talking somebody about a
problem is it's own solution - no solution necessary.

"Alright, it's about time to eat," I said, jabbing a quartered potato
with a fork and giving the cabbage a final toss. As Marissa got Rodney
and began setting the table, I mashed the potatoes and kale, blending
them into a gentle green, buttery paste. I've cut down on the amount of
water in my stamppot recipe. I used to fill the pot up and completely
drain the potatoes before mashing them, but I think you get better
color, flavor, and consistency if you try to preserve as much of the
water is possible. Instead of draining them in a colander, I leeched
about a half cup of water out with a plastic cup and left the rest.

We ate at the dinner table, and after finishing our food, Marissa and I
sat content while Rodney continued poking at his potatoes. "How was the
sausage?" I asked. Marissa looked down at her plate. "It was good," she
hesitated. "I mean… as far as sausage goes."

We sat in silence for another minute, then I decided to break into a bus
story. "So this really old guy today boarded the bus, and he was
touching as many things as possible as he hobbled over to a seat," I
began, getting out of my chair to demonstrate. "He found the seat next
to me, sunk down, and rested his bony elbow right… here." I jabbed my
elbow into Marissa's side and glared at Rodney. "He rode the last three
of my stops like that, with his elbow digging into my side."

Marissa laughed, and Rodney joined in. "I'm surprised you don't complain
about the bus more," Marissa said. "I think I would complain about it
every day." Truthfully, the bus isn't that bad. Most days, everyone is a
good citizen, and based on what I've observed, people love hearing bus
stories.

I think I'll close this entry with my favorite bus story. Let me take
you back to last summer - it was hot and muggy, even in the morning. I
was riding the 15 to work, and as usual, the 15 packed with standing
room only. Every seat was taken, except for a half seat beside a heavy
set guy. His head was rolled back, his legs were splayed out, and he was
sleeping so deeply that he was practically snoring with his mouth open.
Being good, polite bus riders, everyone ignored the scene - except for
this one hip guy wearing a tight black t-shirt and jeans. He took out
his phone, aimed it squarely at the heavy set guy, and snapped a
picture. His phone even made a quiet camera shutter sound. My face
turned beet red, and other people standing around started to feel
uncomfortable. *That's terrible*, I thought. *You can't just take a*
*picture of someone while they're sleeping* *just to embarrass them.*
*Should I confront him? Will somebody else say something?*

Tensions grew as the young guy smirked to himself. I could tell he was
sending the photo to somebody. His fingers moved over the keyboard, as
if he were writing a text.

Suddenly, the heavy set guy's phone rang, buzzing in his shirt pocket
and waking him up from his nap. He took out his phone, studied the
screen, then his head shot up, scanning the bus. His eyes met the guy
who took a picture of them, and they both bursted into laughter.
Apparently they new each other, and the text he sent to him said
something like "I can see you sleeping".

So that's currently my best bus story. Hope you all have a great day
today.

