---
title: backup alarms, feeling like a work alien, and my scary ninja story
banner: 2020-08-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is your Wednesday going?  My day is
already a remarkable improvement from yesterday.  Thanks to a backup
alarm, I sprung out of bed right when I was supposed to.  I brewed
coffee, placed a grocery order, and - I don't mean to brag, but I also
showered today.

"If you have questions about backup alarms, let me know," said Marissa
wryly.  "You know - now that you're turning into a _rissa_."

I rubbed my chin, acting like I was confronting a hard truth.  "I've
never needed to use more than one backup alarm.  Still not operating
at your level yet."

It's no secret that Marissa doesn't like to wake up in the mornings.
She likes to show off her slew of alarms, set to go off every five
minutes over the span of an hour, and even then on some days I still
have to shake her awake.

Marissa laughed.  "If you want, you can do what I used to work
mornings.  Remember when I would set an alarm on your phone and just
reach over and turn it off before it rang?"

"Ah, it's like a small doomsday device, with a grumpy spouse at stake"
I replied.

Waking up was easy today.  Thanks to Marissa for holding it down in
the kitchen last night, I had plenty of time and energy to put things
away and tee my Wednesday up for success.

_Sip_.  I guess I'm leaning into the morning routines so hard because
I still don't feel natural at work.  I took notes.  I chatted with
people over slack.  I even worked a few tickets and did some easy code
changes.  But no matter what I virtually shuffled around, I couldn't
shake the feeling that I was an imposter.  A con man posing as a
software engineer.  An alien in a skin suit, sent to earth to study
the behaviors of a remote office.

"Don't worry if it doesn't feel normal yet," said Heath.  "It took me
like a full month before I felt natural again."

I think the remote aspect is to blame.  In fact if not for a quick
sync up with Heath in the late morning, I wouldn't have talked to
anyone face to face all day.  Thus far my return to work has been
completely immaterial.  My family is still hanging out and living
their lives downstairs, just as we were all summer.

To amuse myself, I described the sensation to my family over lunch as
if I were indeed a work alien.  "So this work thing," I began.  "It's
not as fun as not working.  It's like I have to sit there when I would
rather be doing other things.  But when I'm all done sitting there?
Woah man - that's a good feeling."

Quitting time came.  The first official work day on the books.  I
locked my laptop, and after collecting Rodney from his naptime, we
joined Marissa in the kitchen.

"I have jobs for you two," said Marissa.  "You guys want to husk
corn?"

Rodney and I sat on the back porch, husking corn for dinner.  When we
had finished, Rodney led me to the front yard to show me some of the
construction that was going on.  This week, they've started to dig up
some of the road on the corner of our house, and that has made us the
proud stewards of a bright orange "ONE LANE ROAD AHEAD" sign.

"The sign says... NO WALKING," said Rodney, tugging on the velcro
strap.

"Hey, no touching that," I scolded.  "It may be in front of our house,
but it's still not ours to mess with."

Marissa prepared a Mexican salad with chopped bacon and a side of corn
on the cob.  Since there was also corn in the salad, she redubbed the
meal _corn with a side of corn_.  Delicious nonetheless.

"So this came together pretty fast," said Marissa.  "What should we do
with our extra time?"

"We could go for a walk," I added.

"NO NO NO," said Rodney wagging his finger.  "Dada, the sign says NO
WALKING."

"You know," said Marissa.  "Rodney was asking about the roller coaster
today.  Think we can finish it?"

Together we built the final segment of track, assembled the cart, and
attached the orange cable all along the rails.  Rodney was my _parts
guy_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-26/parts-guy.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 26 parts guy" src="/images/2020-08-26/parts-guy.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>My parts guy, zoning out on the job.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Before sending the cart on its maiden voyage down our beloved family
quarantine project, we pulled Rodney aside for a quick conversation
about _troubleshooting_.

"Troubleshooting?" asked Rodney.

"That's when you figure out why something is broken.  And it's part of
building things."

"It probably won't work the first time, honey," said Marissa.  "But
we'll figure it out, that's the fun in this stuff."

How cynical must we have sounded to Rodney, planning for our mighty
roller coaster to fail before we even tried it!  Nevertheless, we
lined up the cart.  The crank slowly carried it up the track.  It
paused at the top.  Rodney gave it a nudge with his finger, and it
inched forward.  Slowly, like it was being pulled by an invisible
string, the cart crept forward.

"Here is goes," I said.

The card ripped down the hill, climbed the first leg of the
loop-de-loop, then crashed.  It was an admirable attempt.

"Let's do it again!" yelled Rodney.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-08-26/complete.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 08 26 complete" src="/images/2020-08-26/complete.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Not quite a functional roller coaster, but already a cool
fort.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

I put Rodney to bed.  "We stayed up too late with the coaster, no
story," I said bleakly.  But I had one last surprise up my sleeve.
The other day, Rodney asked me if I knew any bedtime stories about He,
Miles, and _n-jins_, which I translated to _ninjas_.  I stowed the
memory away for the next time I put him to bed.  Keeping the element
of surprise, I clicked his light dimmer and jumped in bed with him.

"IT WAS A DARK, STORMY NIGHT," I began.  "RODNEY AND MILES WERE ASLEEP
IN THEIR BEDS."

Rodney stared straight ahead, his neck locked nervously as I went on
to tell a tale of evil ninjas attacking our house.

"The ninja stood, lifting his gleaming sword into the air.  He was
getting ready to _bring it down_ on Miles, when all of the sudden
_THWIP_.  A bolt of web from the shadows!  It was Spider-Man Rodney!"

I finished my story, but Rodney was not pleased.  He just awkwardly
nodded and smiled, trying to hide his anxiety.

"Did I scare you dude?  I thought you wanted to hear a story about
ninjas?"

"Kinda pretty scary," said Rodney, his eyes skidding around his
bedroom.

"Dada, n-jins means _engines_," said Marissa overhearing us in the
hallway.

"Yeah," said Rodney.  "M-m-motorcycles and monster trucks, dump
trucks, excavators."

"You... wanted to hear a story about you and Miles... driving dump
trucks?"

Rodney gulped, nodding.

"Dude, daddy screwed the pooch on this one.  I'll tell you a better
story tomorrow," I laughed.

"Why would you tell a story about Miles getting attacked by ninjas?"
said Marissa, cross examining me as I left his bedroom.

"I guess I just got carried away," I laughed.  "I wanted to tell a
good ninja story."

"If he wakes up crying tonight..."

"I know I know," I said, waving my hand dismissively.  "I'll get him."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day.
