---
title: coffee in church, groceries, and nasi goreng
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone! Hope you are feeling relaxed and refreshed
today. This morning, Rodney and I woke up around 9:30. I changed him
into a nice pair of dress pants and a spider-man t-shirt and set him up
on the couch to nibble on some cereal while watching water slide videos.
Meanwhile, in the kitchen, I picked through our packed dishwasher for
the coffee machine funnel and spout and brewed a full pot of coffee,
filling our thermoses for church.

Lately, one of my favorite things about our church is that they let you
bring coffee into the service. This was quite a shock to me. As someone
who even had hesitations about taking a sealed coffee traveler into a
church sanctuary, you can imagine the culture shock seeing people
sipping from open mugs and even Starbucks cups. Now I'm used to drinking
coffee in church, and I've even come to expect it and look forward to
it. And why shouldn't we be able to drink coffee in church? People are
more alert, relaxed, and comfortable when they can drink coffee. I'm
telling you - once you start drinking coffee in church, there's no
looking back.

*Sip*. Yesterday was a wonderful day. After publishing a journal entry,
Marissa, Rodney, and I hung around the house through the afternoon.
Marissa worked busily on the resin tent in the basement, taking a break
to make us some omelets for a light afternoon lunch. After a quick
lunch, Rodney and I left for the grocery store to pick up dinner.

We had a nice grocery trip, but Hy-Vee gets pretty busy on the weekends.
Even Rodney, who normally likes to walk alongside me and wave to people,
chose to just stay in the cart and eat a banana. We navigated the
crowded aisles, picking up vegetables, chicken thighs, and other things
we needed for dinner. Lastly, Rodney grabbed a chocolate egg from the
candy basket.

Back at home, once Rodney was done eating his chocolate egg, I let him
pick out a few toys and put him in his room for "quiet time" - which is
our working term for re-branded nap time. As a parent, I'm already kind
of sad to bid farewell to the long daily naps where I'd have two hours
to myself. I especially miss the morning naps Rodney used to take after
breakfast when he was still a baby. He's all grown up now, and instead
of a nap in the afternoon, now he just hangs out in his room with a few
toys with the blinds closed. He still falls asleep, however. Usually
when we have to wake him up from afternoon quiet time, he's sitting on
the floor with his head flopped down on his bed underneath the blanket.

Back in the kitchen, I began to prep for dinner. I was turning the
leftover white rice in the fridge into fried rice - *nasi goreng* to be
specific. I opened a beer, put on some music, and got to slicing up
cabbage, bell peppers, carrots, and chicken thighs. I crushed some
garlic and diced some ginger. I had all the ingredients line up on the
counter, in order.

"I'm about to start the fried rice," I told Marissa, coming down the
stairs to check on her. She was still busy wiring up the resin tent. "It
could go fast, and it will probably be a huge mess, so just be ready to
eat soon, I have no idea when it will be ready."

I was pretty nervous to make fried rice. It has almost always been a
disaster, and I felt the need to sit for a few minutes in my kitchen
staring at the ingredients and visualizing the recipe from start to end.
I decided to go with a wok. I figured whatever pan I would use would
have sticking problems, so it would be better to go with a pan that's
light and easy to toss around.

I dumped in sesame oil, garlic, and ginger. I added a beaten egg, and
began to wildly toss and turn it with a wooden spoon. The egg quickly
scrambled. I added the diced chicken thighs, which immediately turned
ghostly white after hitting the hot oil. I changed my footing, then
dumped in the rice, continuing to wildly shake and stir the wok. The
rice clumped at the end of the spoon and began to cake on the bottom of
the wok, but through vigorous stirring and scraping I was able to keep
the rice moving. I added the sweet soy sauce and a dollop gochujang,
stirring it into the rice before dumping in a handful of sliced
vegetables. Things were starting to smell good.

By the time I was finished, so much rice and been flung out of the wok
and onto the stove that I needed to make a second batch. I dumped the
first batch into a platic bowl and quickly scrubbed out the wok in sink.
The wok hissed when I turned the water on. After scrubbing out the burn
rice and quickly patting it dry with a towel, I returned the wok to the
stove and added more oil.

The second batch turned out better. I used much less rice, which allowed
me to better keep things moving around. When it was finished, I combined
it with the first batch and gave it a final toss. I finished the dish by
frying two eggs in some leftover clarified butter, and a third well done
egg for Marissa. I plated the fried rice, then, completely exhausted
from the effort, crumpled into my seat at the dinner table. Marissa
joined us, grabbing a water bottle out of the fridge.

"So here's nasi goreng," I said. "It was awful. I'm exhausted. But I did
it." As we sat at the table eating, the dogs helped themselves to the
globs or rice stuck to the floor and garbage can. I was grateful that
they were getting a head start on things for me. "So I'll probably just
be cleaning the kitchen the rest of the night," I laughed. I got up and
grabbed the wok out of the sink, showing Marissa the caked and crusted
rice stuck to the metal.

After church today, we're running some errands, and we'll go to Bed Band
& Beyond to shop around for a big nonstick pan. I'd like to make fried
rice again, and I'm hoping that with a big nonstick pan, the recipe will
be a lot easier to make. I'd love to be able to make fried rice without
throwing half of it around my kitchen and running a smoking hot wok over
to the sink between batches.

That's what I got today. Hope you have a great day today. If you think
you can get away with it, take some coffee into church with you.

