---
title: movies, chilean food, and the burpee rag bin
banner: 2020-06-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Monday.  I hope you get a good start
today, and plenty of coffee to wake you up along the way.  I'm feeling
good today.  It feels good to begin a fresh week, and on the other
side of the coin, I feel comforted knowing that we're still hovering
in last few days of June.  I don't think I'm quite ready to look at a
July date just yet.  Rolling over into July would mean that I've
completed a full month of paternity leave, which would mean that I
would need to start thinking about work.  Not ready for that yet.

_Sip_.  Marissa and I have been getting a lot of joy from movies
lately.  Picking up the pace, we've managed to obliterate any sense of
a comfortable genre, instead being dedicated to watch anything and
everything _eventually_.

"I aspire to be one of those people who can find something redeem-able
in literally every movie," I said to Marissa last night.

"I think we're already there," she laughed.  "We watched the movie
_Splice_ and still had stuff to talk about.  Yesterday you almost
convinced me that _American Psycho_ was my favorite movie."

I nodded.  "If they were truly bad movies, we wouldn't have talked so
much about them."

"I think some movies are meant to be enjoyed afterwards just thinking
about them," mused Marissa loud.

Yes, recently, we've had a difficult arc through some unsettling
thrillers and horror flicks, so I thought I would give us a break and
spin up a rom-com.  Last night, we watched a little more than half of
_There's Something About Mary_.

"This is so good," said Marissa while munching on taco chips.  "I love
a _good_ rom-com with a _good_ bad guy."

"I thought I've already seen this movie," I replied, "but most of this
is completely new to me."

Admittedly, we're using movies as an escape.  They're an escape from
coronavirus.  They're an escape from hearing about Donald Trump in the
news.  They're an escape from riots.  This morning, talking about
movies is also an escape from cleaning my messy kitchen.  Yesterday I
attempted to make a Chilean themed meal to celebrate my wife's 1/8th
share of Chilean ancestry.  I took Rodney to Hy-Vee, practically
loading an entire farmer's market worth of produce into our shopping
cart.  Back at home, I hurriedly prepared a Chilean _pebre_ - diced
onions, _monder_'ed tomatoes, banana peppers, garlic, lime, olive oil,
and cilantro.  And even though my tomato mondering could use some more
practice, Marissa claims it was the best salsa she's ever had.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/pebre.jpg">
    <img alt="pebre" src="/images/pebre.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Chilean Pebre, which probably means "spent the afternoon
crying from dicing all these onions"</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

And for the main course, we had Chilean empenadas - braised beef and
onion filling wrapped in a flaky, golden brown dough - and just before
sealing these shut, following authentic instruction I tucked an olive,
a handful of raisins, and a wedge of hard boiled egg inside.  I have a
feeling that I made a wrong turn somewhere - these were not supposed
to puff up like pizza dough.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/empenadas.jpg">
    <img alt="empenadas" src="/images/empenadas.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Accidental Chilean fusion calzone.  Still delicious.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

And so all after all this amateur exploration through Chilean cuisine,
my kitchen is in shambles.  Every plate and bowl I own is stacked in
the sink, glistening with a film of egg wash.  Cilantro stems and
garlic peels garnish the counter, forming a very pretty contrast with
flour dusted cutting board.  On top of everything, while feeding
_Krang_ this morning, his jar shattered in the sink.  Why not get a
little broken glass involved as well?

Yesterday after sliding my empenadas into the oven, I collected Rodney
from his room, greeting him at the door with a little ball of leftover
empenada dough.  Rodney led me downstairs to the kitchen table, where
he took me through some bizarre made-up recipe which involved
flattening the dough like a pancake and poking it with a pen cap.  But
for something that was clearly invented by a bored three year old, I
was impressed with how focused he was.  Lancing his little dried up
dough ball with a pen, you would think he was Bobby Flay in the last
few remaining seconds of a close finish episode of _Iron Chef_.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I poured some wine and made a
last valiant push to clean the project board for the week, sorting all
of Miles' newborn clothes.  When it was finished, we sank into our
chairs, victoriously adding the final index card at the top of the
_DONE_ column.

"What went well this week?" I asked.

"I like that we only had one more thing to do on Sunday," said
Marissa.  "That's way better than having three more cards."

"We started much earlier too," I added.  "Getting at least _something_
done right away on Monday seems to set the tone for the whole week."

Marissa nodded.

"I'd like to propose the MVP of the week," I said, changing the
subject.  "The burpee rag bin."

Marissa nodded while sipping her wine, then raised her glass in
agreement.  "The burpee rag bin.  Your finest invention."

Earlier that week, I had been complaining about how difficult it was
to find a burpee rag in the house.  Despite having dozens of them
circulating in our laundry, when push comes to shove, and the baby
fluids are pouring out from Miles like an Old Testament miracle, none
of them can be found.

"Can we put them all in once container?" I asked.

"I can pick up a bin in the next Target order," Marissa replied.  But
I shook my head, being interested in an immediate solution.  I flung
open our tupperware drawer, retrieving a large bowl.  Holding the bowl
in hand, I began to pace around the living room.

"How about here?" I asked, pointing to the corner of dresser behind
the TV.

"There?" questioned Marissa.  "That's kind of a weird place.  Will it
be hard to get to?"  Without answering her, I flipped the bowl on its
side and slid it behind the TV.  It rested comfortably in place.

"Check it out," I bragged.  "The bowl is too big to fall behind the
dresser."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/burpee-rag-bin.jpg">
    <img alt="burpee rag bin" src="/images/burpee-rag-bin.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>My greatest invention.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

As the week passed, we've grown to like the oddly placed tupperware
bin of burpee rags.  It's a bit out of the way, but it helps having
all the burpee rags centralized in a single, predictable spot.

"To the burpee rag bin," said Marissa raising her glass again.  I
lifted my glass beside her.  _Clink_.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a wonderful day today.
