---
title: pain, hobby highs, and new bikes
banner: 2020-07-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Sunday.  Good morning, everybody.  Looking at the clock in the
corner of my computer screen, it's five minutes to noon at the time of
writing this.  While technically still the morning, I've really
started to abuse the phrase _good morning_, haven't I?  We've been
staying up late and sleeping in on the weekends, so even if it is
almost lunch time for the rest of my time zone, it feels like morning
to me.

This morning, I'm still high maintenance finger injury guy,
and I have a finger injury update that nobody asked for.  Since
yesterday afternoon, I've been able to go without the wet eggsac of
gauze hanging off my finger tip.  There is a nasty bruise developing,
and it feels so sore that I fear even typing too hard might open up
the bloody floodgates again.

So is this a serious injury?  Or am I just being a big wimp?  I'll let
you decide.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/finger-cut.jpg">
    <img alt="finger cut" src="/images/finger-cut.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>It looks... bigger in person.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Pain is funny.  Everyone has their own limits, but no matter how tough
or frail somebody is, you kind of have to respect their pain and
resist the urge to mitigate it.  My world falls apart when I get a cut
on my finger.  Rodney insists that his food hurts his mouth if it
hasn't cooled at the table for at least twenty minutes.  Meanwhile,
Marissa, who has been through childbirth twice (and the second one
without an epidural), tends to both our pain and resists the urge to
laugh.  I think a lesser woman would play the childbirth card a lot
more often.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday, and the best way to sum it up
would be a new term that Marissa invented.  "We're on a _hobby high_,"
she says.

A _hobby high_ is when you simply lose yourself in your hobbies.
Every now and then, our hobby highs align, and in two separate
parallel worlds of interest, we kick ass and take names for an entire
day.

"Can I show you something I painted when you get a minute," said
Marissa leaning into the kitchen.  I joined her out on the deck with a
cup of coffee.

"I had my first success with acrylic ink and water on canvas," she
said, directing my attention to a gorgeous blue circular painting.
"Water is a lot more tricky to work with, but it worked out this
time," she said.

Standing on the deck in my robe, I craned my neck and let my eyes get
lost in the swirling colors.  "It's a lot more... _physical_," I said,
my voice trailing off.

"The water is a lot harder to control," said Marissa.  "It made for a
lot more spontaneity and energy.  It kind of reminds me of when I
started with alcohol inks."

"That's a good note," I replied.  "You've gotten so good at alcohol
that a lot of your pieces are _vapor_ like, and they all kind of
dissipate from a few discrete points on the page.  But this..."

I took a step back to get one final look at the circular canvas.

"This is wild, like a wave crashing on the beach.  This has a very
different presence," I continued.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/acryllic-wip.jpg">
    <img alt="acryllic wip" src="/images/acryllic-wip.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>What would you name this one?</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

My side of the _hobby high_ was a coding binge.  The monkey patch I
was rambling about yesterday morning _did not_ pan out.  In the late
morning, I rose from my chair in frustration.

"Not going well?" asked Marissa.

"Yeah, just can't find a clean way to do this.  I don't think renaming
files is worth this big of a mess."  I rubbed my eyes and looked at
the computer.  "What a mess!" I yelled playfully.

"Yeah, what a mess!" yelled Rodney from the living room.  He squared
his stance and narrowed his eyes.

"Are... you asking for a challenge?" I taunted, approaching him from
the dining room.  I grabbed the heavy cast iron Dutch oven lid off the
counter.  And with that, I shook off the bad coding session with some
pretend combat.

I'd return to website hacking later that evening.  I decided, instead,
to leave all the guts of the website in tact and redo the theme.  I've
noticed that when it comes to website design, I follow the same basic
ebb and flow.  At first, I build things up with copious dependencies
and go out of my way to make things look modern.  Then about a month
into the new theme, I hit a breaking point, and born out of
frustration and the desire to start from scratch, I strip out
everything and go back to basics.

This iteration is 100% basic, home grown HTML and CSS.  At first
glance, it might look like a sudden lurch back to the unsightly style
of the early nineties Internet, but I'm quite happy with it.  There's
something very honest and satisfying about about a perfectly
functional, no fuss, content-first website.

I made some practical improvements as well.  All images are now
clickable, and by default they just redirect to the full size.  I've
also added a _What's New?_ section to the home page to keep the more
loyal of readers appraised of ongoing changes.

In the meantime, some pages are missing.  I still have to finish
stitching the archives and stats together, but where I left off some
time last night around midnight, I'm happy with the overall aesthetic
and direction.  Maybe I should get a big blinking banner that says
_UNDER CONSTRUCTION_ to really drive the retro theme home?

I took a long break from coding yesterday to make dinner.  At
Marissa's request, we made sweet potato gnocchi again.  This time, we
switched out the bacon with pancietta which did wonders for the end
flavor in the butter sauce.  And even though Rodney usually likes to
help me roll the pasta, he was so content playing with his toys that I
just decided to do it myself.  I forgot about how quick of a recipe
this was without the added complication of a toddler playing in a bag
of raw flour.

After dinner, we took Rodney out to try his new bike.  Out of what is
probably just a general fear of new things, Rodney had been putting it
off and coming up with excuses.  "Let's play hockey instead," said
Rodney, cycling through his Rolodex of procrastination.  "I'm kind of
pretty tired... I want to go watch blippi.  It's pretty dark outside.
My bike is too big, I'm small."

I put a reward on the table.  "Dude.  If you just sit on the bike..."
I slid a pack of pocky in front of his empty dinner plate.  "You can
have this whole pack of pocky on the couch."

While the offer was good enough to get Rodney outside, standing beside
the bike seat, he started to get cold feet again.  I knelt beside him
to give him a pep talk."

"Look dude, we're not letting you walk away from this.  We want you to
just try the bike.  Just a little bit."

Rodney sobbed and squirmed, fidgeting with the straps of his helmet.
"I don't want to," he sighed.

I picked Rodney up by his armpits.  He squealed, and his legs
stiffened out of protest.  With Marissa's help, we lowered Rodney onto
the bike seat.  He cried while I pushed him slowly up and down the
sidewalk.

"You did it!" we said when he'd reached the end.  But he wasn't
feeling our enthusiasm.  "OK, all done now.  I want to go inside now."

I think a lot about when you should push your kids to try new things,
and when you should give them space.  It doesn't seem like there's a
_one size fits all_ approach.

"Were you scared, Rod?" asked Marissa.  Rodney, still sputtering with
tears, just nodded.  He wiped his nose, and examined his finger,
handing me a booger.  "Here dad, I have a booger."

"You know dude," I said.  "You were afraid to try water slides too.
I'm not sure if you remember, but you cried when we made you try it
the first time.  And now you love water slides, right?"

"Yeah, I just take a little break now," said Rodney squeezing further
into the couch.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day.
