---
title: beer, car seats, and april o'niel - channel 7 news
banner: 2020-03-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Sunday.  I hope you're feeling good
today and ready to soak up the last bit of weekend before this work
week.  I'm up a bit earlier than usual this Sunday.  The dogs seemed a
little annoyed to get out of bed so soon, but with the unspoken
promise of an accompanying early breakfast, they got on board and
followed me downstairs so I could make coffee.  After feeding them,
brewing a pot of coffee, and emptying the dishwasher, we've returned
to the upstairs bedroom.  Ziggy is asleep in bed, and Ollie is laying
beneath my desk while I quietly type.  It's a nice morning.

Yesterday was a great day.  We slept in as long as possible.  I got
Rodney out of bed and set him up by the TV.  But soon after, he
wandered into the kichen.  "Rodney hungry," he said, opening the
fridge and aimlessly scanning the shelves.

"Want to help me make a Dutch baby, dude?" I said.  Rodney promptly
grabbed the white step ladder from the corner and joined me at the
counter.  I let him stir the batter a few more times with a whisk
before dumping it into the cast iron.  I started the oven timer, and
after pouring Rodney some cereal in a bowl, I sat down at the computer
to work on some code before breakfast.

After finishing breakfast, we headed outside as a family.  Marissa
worked on raking up the backyard while Rodney played in his sandbox.
Meanwhile, I moved our car to a sunny spot in the driveway and began
studying the instruction manual for the new car seat.  I removed
Rodney's car seat, shook out all the crumbs, and installed it into the
other side of the car.  I called Rodney and Marissa over to check my
work.

"So dude," I said to Rodney while showing him to the car.  "I know
you're pretty used to climbing in on the right side, but that's where
baby Miles is gonna sit from now on, get it?"  Rodney peaked his head
into the car and smiled.  "Oh I get it," he said.

"You know dude," I continued.  "It's kind of like a promotion.
Welcome to the driver side of the back seat.  Keep up the great work."
I offered Rodney a cordial handshake from his seat in the back.
Rodney ignored my gesture, and instead put his head down by Marissa's
belly.

"BABY MILES?" yelled Rodney.  "UGH, _GBLAGBLAGBLK NEW CAR SEAT_."
Marissa paused for a moment before throwing her voice in response.
"Pretty cool, Rodney!" she said with a squeek.

With our morning work complete, we leashed up the dogs and went for a
walk.  Before locking up the house, I poured a coffee thermos for
Marissa.  I held up my thermos and smiled.  "We were out of coffee," I
said.  "So I just decided to pour a beer into mine instead.  _Ik drink
een bier terwijl wij lopen_."  I hit the latch on my thermos, and
immediately my face was spritzed with a mist of carbonated beer,
covering my glasses with tiny droplets.  Marissa and Rodney laughed.

We went for a long walk around the block.  There were more people
outside today, trying to make the best of the nice weather while
keeping their distance from each other.  A car slowed beside us, and a
neighbor leaned his head out the driver side window.

"TWO corgis, the toddler is walkin', and another on the way?" the
friendly face yelled.

"We're a busy family!" I replied.  He smiled and kept driving.  "You
should have messed with him and said you weren't pregnant," I said to
Marissa.  For how often people acknowledge she is pregnant, I wish she
would say unexpected things like "no I'm not pregnant, I just get
really hungry in the evenings," or "nope!  Just a beer belly!  What
can you do?"

After returning home from our walk, Marissa took Rodney inside to make
a bowl of mac 'n cheese for lunch.  I continued walking to the liquor
store to pick up some beer.  Trixie's liquor was taking the pandemic
very seriously.  They had a sign posted on the door that advertised a
strict limit for how many people could shop at a time.  The guy at the
counter sanitized the card reader before and after I made my purchase.
I walked home, carrying a heavy 30 pack of PBR, switching arms as I
got tired.  "I can't believe this beer is twenty bucks for a thirty
pack," I said heaving it into the kitchen.  "This stuff is literally
cheaper than water."

I joined Marissa and Rodney at the table with some reheated pizza.  We
ate lunch, then Rodney went down for a nap.  Marissa and I hung out on
the couch.  She dozed off while I watched _Jackass_ reruns.

We decided to order in for dinner.  Since the quarantine began, we've
managed to cook every single meal at home, and I was looking forward
to a break from cleaning up the kitchen.  We ordered food, and after
getting Rodney out of bed, we all sat at the dining room table ready
to dig in.  I got a kimchi Reuben with fries, Rodney got a grilled
cheese, and Marissa ordered a burger.  Together, we quietly picked at
our food.

"So how's that ninja turtles movie, dude?" I asked.  "What are the
turtles up to?"

"Yeah... TURTLES!" replied Rodney.

"I don't like the actor they got to play Kacy in this one.  He's
creepy." said Marissa.

"Oh yeah, does he keep hitting on...," I paused trying to remember her
name.  "Wendy?  Who is the news girl again?"

"April," replied Marissa.

"April O'niel.  Channel 7 News," said Rodney, finishing her
thought.  We looked at Rodney and smiled.

"Uh... what did you say dude?  Can you say that again?"

"April O'niel.  Channel 7 news!" repeated Rodney more loudly.  Marissa
and I broke into quiet laughter.

"I mean, we shouldn't be surprised," I said.  "He watches a lot of
ninja turtles.  He's bound to know more than us."

After dinner, I washed dishes while Rodney stalked me in the kitchen
with his ninja swords.  Every few minutes, I'd spin around and throw
my hands up ready to fight.  I'd chase Rodney into the living room and
tackle him on the couch.  "SAY MONKEY!" I yelled, holding Rodney in a
gentle headlock.

"MAMA.  MAMA.  I CAN'T MOVE!" called out Rodney.  Marissa casually
strolled into the living room to watch us wrestle.

"You have to say 'monkey', dude," said Marissa.  "Those are the
rules."

"I DON'T WANT," said Rodney.  I released his head, and Rodney jumped
up to his feet to swing his sword at me.  We wrestled until bed time.
As we walked him upstairs to bed, Marissa and I chanted _April O'niel
Channel 7 News_.

Thanks for stopping by this morning.  I hope you have a wonderful day.
