---
title: pizza, ninja turtles, and our european friends
---

Dear Journal,

*Goedemorgen, mijn vrienden! Hoe gaat het vandag?* I hope you're all
feeling good today. It's Friday, and looking outside, there is plenty to
be thankful for. I'm thankful that we're heading into a weekend, which
will yield lots of time to catch up on things around the house and find
some rest.

I'm feeling good today. I decided to work from home today. With the
coronavirus scare still building to a crescendo, the remote work option
has become very popular, even to the point where staying home is
encouraged. And before climbing into bed last night, I stood for a
moment staring at my desk. Comfortable, well-lit, a good pair of
headphones and a good microphone - I'm looking forward to spending the
work day here.

Yesterday was another busy work day where I was in and out of meeting
rooms… pretty much all day. Some point between all the bouncing back and
forth, I joined my desk neighbor Julia back in our corner. "We have…
thirty minutes until the next meeting. What are we even supposed to do?"
I griped. Julia laughed. "I know, right?" she replied. "It's not even
enough time to start anything."

Around lunch time, I took advantage of another half hour micro break to
walk across the street to pick up my favorite sandwich from the cheese
shop. As I usually do, I cut the sandwich in half, labeling, bagging,
and sticking the extra wedge in the fridge to save for Marissa. And as
I'm writing this now, I realize that I had no further plans for that
half of sandwich. We'll see if it's still there when I return to work on
Monday.

I finished our final meeting at 4, where are team remotely introduced
ourselves to a new engineering manager we hired. My laptop was
practically depleted from all the running around I did away from my
desk, and when the meeting wrapped my battery was literally at 1%. I
shut the lid and jumped on a bus homeward.

I wanted to get home a little early to get a jump on the pizza. Last
night, I invited Rafael and Miguel, who were visiting from our Dublin
office, over for dinner. When I walked in the door, Marissa was already
busily putting things away. Rodney emerged from his room cradling a hand
full of Ninja Turtles action figures. In the kitchen, I got to making
the pizza, beginning with the sauce.

Olive oil, garlic, oregano, red pepper flakes, and two cans of whole
peeled San Marzano tomatoes later, I left the sauce on the stove to
simmer and began making the dough. Marissa joined me in the kitchen to
wash the lettuce for the salad.

"I admire how hosting people brings out the best in you," I said to
Marissa breaking the busy silence. I chuckled, realizing my spontaneous
complement *could* be received as a sleight. What about when we're not
having people over? Is she at her worst then? The road to offending your
wife is usually paved with good intentions.

I kid. Marissa was gracious about it. Touched - not offended.

"So what are their names again?" asked Marissa, straightening up the
pillows in the living room.

"Rafael and Miguel," I replied. "They work in Dublin, but I think they
are both from Spain."

Marissa stood thinking for a minute. "Man," she said. "It's going to be
really difficult not referring to them as *Rafael* and *Michaelangelo*,"
laughed Marissa.

Our guests arrived at the front door. Marissa greeted them as I herded
the dogs into the back yard. Rodney handed them each a foam sword on
entry before they even had a chance to remove their quotes. Rafael and
Miguel rose to the occasion, joining Rodney in sword combat before even
learning his name, and you have to admire that easy going attitude.

"This is Rodney. Excuse him, he is really into Ninja Turtles right now,"
I said. Marissa's eyes lit up, as if she had a joke at the ready.

"In fact," she said. "We were sort of tempted to refer to you two as
Rafael and *Michaelangelo*."

"My name is Michaelangelo!" Miguel replied enthusiastically. "Well,
really it's *Miguelangelo*."

"That's close enough!" I said. How strange of a coincidence! In the past
week, it feels like the theme of Ninja Turtles has descended on my life.
I see it everywhere.

After Rodney's excitement subsided, we released the dogs from the
backyard into the house, and they incited a second wave of enthusiasm in
the living room. "They'll calm down after five minutes," Marissa
clarified.

We ushered Rafael and Miguel into the living room, took their coats, and
hooked them up with some beer from a sampler pack Marissa had picked up
from Hy-Vee. Miguel presented us some chocolate they had brought from
Ireland.

As the pizzas finished in the oven, we made our way back to the living
room and rested on the couch with TMNT playing quietly in the
background. We got to chatting, covering the basics - how long they've
each been with the company, their role, and what got them there.

Sitting down at the table with pizza and salad, I finally steered the
conversation into cultural curiosity. "So I just have to say it," I
opened boisterously. "That double kiss thing you guys do at the door is
pretty damn charming. Do you just do that for the ladies, or was I
supposed to kiss you too?" Rafael and Miguel blushed in embarrassment,
laughing. "You know it gets awkward sometimes," said Rafael. "Sometimes
you go to kiss someone twice, and they were only expecting to kiss
once." He mimed the awkward situation, bobbing his head around and
widening his eyes.

"Ah, that's like your version of the handshake-fistbump debacle that can
happen sometimes," I laughed. "I wonder what it would take to bring that
to the US?" I laughed. "We could just start kissing people, and I'm sure
it would catch on eventually."

Rafael and Miguel spoke more to their unique perspective of Ireland,
originally emigrating from Spain. "I almost gave up and moved back on
the first day," Miguel shared. "I just arrived in Ireland. Exhausted,
carrying a hundred pounds of luggage. I wanted to order a big mac. 'Big
Mac' I said, then they guy behind the counter asked me a question, and I
had no idea what he was saying."

"He got frustrated," continued Miguel. "Then finally looked at me and
gestured." Miguel silently used his hands to gesture 'big one' or
'little one'. "How was I going to live there, find my way around, attend
meetings at work, when I couldn't even order a Big Mac?"

Rafael chimed in. "I get frustrated in cabs. I thought I could speak
English, but I can't understand cab drivers."

The conversation wandered from accents, to politics, to culture. I was a
little fuzzy on Irish & UK relations, and at one point I had completely
forgotten that Spain got quite a bit of snow. "Have you guys ever made a
snowball?" I asked condescendingly. Rafael's eyes widened. "Alex! Spain
has snowy mountains! Of course I've made a snowball."

"We're grateful you guys visited with us," I said as our evening came to
a close. "You see, as Americans we can now brag that we were
entertaining our *European friends*," I said twirling my hand to
emphasize the exotic appeal. "Everyone's going to think we're so
cultured now."

We're grateful Rafael and Miguel spent time with us. What a wonderful
evening. Thanks for stopping by this morning. Stay safe out there. To
our Zendesk friends visiting the Madison office, I hope you make it home
safely and remain healthy in the coming months. Have a great Friday,
everyone!

