---
title: waking up early, the pomodoro system, and starbucks nostalgia
banner: 2020-12-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Thursday.  It's a good feeling waking
up on the other side of the halfway point in the week.  The kitchen is
clean.  The dishes are put away.  The smell of fresh coffee lingers in
the air.  The house is put together, except for that single stray lego
brick that pierced the bottom of my foot.  I hadn't even had any
coffee yet, but let me tell you I felt alert enough to land an
airplane after that nice little jolt of adrenaline.

Yesterday, Marissa and I were talking about when we wake up in the
morning.  She marveled at how I wake up so early in the morning after
we go to bed at the same time.

"I don't mind it," I said.  "The funny thing is most of it happens
before I have coffee.  It's a nice little reward for when I can
finally sit down by the couch and read for a half hour."

My alarm goes off at 6:30, but I usually don't make it down stairs
until 6:45 when I promptly let the dogs out and feed them their
breakfast.  From that point, I have 45 minutes to tidy up.  I put the
dishes away, catch up on any chores I shrugged off from the night
before, and finally brew two pots of coffee while feeding the
sourdough.  I do coffee and sourdough at the end because both chores
need cold water and that way I only have to wait for the sink's
temperature to change once.

I pay back the accumulated sleep debt on Saturday morning.  On
weekends I write in the evening, so it makes Saturday morning a
special treat.  Still, I aspire to be one of those people that wakes
up at the same time every day and instead just take more power naps.

"Who would want to wake up early on Saturday morning," Marissa scoffed.

"That's just it," I laughed.  "That's the appeal.  Nobody wants to.
So you have the whole house to yourself, and you also get to lord it
over everyone else who spent the morning sleeping in."

As it's almost time to start thinking about new year's resolutions,
I'm going keep that one in the chamber.  Maybe 2021 will be the year I
finally commit to being a more consistent morning person.

_Sip_.  How's your circadian rhythm these days?  Do you wake up at the
same time on every day of the week, or do you leave room for sleeping
in?  And how has your week been so far?

I've had a notably productive week.  This past Tuesday, the interns
and I conducted a retrospective on the work we had finish this past
sprint.  We took turns creating virtual sticky notes, calling out the
things that went well and the things that slowed us down.

"I'm having a hard time focusing," I admitted, taking my own sticky
note from the pile.  "I feel like I've hit the point where I have so
many different priorities, it's hard to be effective on any one of
them.  You two are in college, do you have any tips?"

"I use the _pomorodoro_ method," said Ritik quietly.  "I'd recommend
it."

Later, it took me a few tries to find it in a Google search.  The word
_pomodoro_ is one of those simple words that makes me feel dumb when
I try to spell it.  I read that pomodoro is a system invented by a
French medical student in which you use a timer to guide short bursts
of focus.  The word _pomodoro_ is the Italian word for "tomato".
Apparently he was inspired to name the system after his tomato shaped
kitchen timer.

So I've been taking the pomodoro system for a spin, and I'm really
excited about it.  A unit of work is twenty-five minutes long followed
by a five minute break.  I do three units of work, then I take a
twenty minute break.

My first trip around the pomodoro timer, I completed a ticket I had
been assigned to for two days.  The ticket sounded like it had a
daunting complication, but sure enough I was only twenty-five minutes
from understanding that my concerns were irrelevant and the ticket was
in fact very easy.

The genius of the system is in how doable it sounds.  Twenty-five
minutes doesn't sound like a lot of time, so it really helps you
overcome that emotional activation energy of starting something new
and daunting.  Not to mention the promise of a glorious twenty minute
break in the near future.  In the middle of a work day, twenty minutes
is a long time.  Twenty minutes is a leisurely coffee break
downstairs, a walk around the block, or even an entire episode of
Seinfeld downstairs.

I've been using my bread timer all week.  The alarm is loud and
jarring.  At least once, it woke up a napping baby Miles across the
hall.  I took a peek at Amazon and discovered a whole series of
"productivity timers" with quieter alarms.  Ignoring the fact that
most of them were marketed for keeping children with ADHD focused on
their schoolwork, it sounds exactly like what I need.

In between work, the subject of working at Starbucks came up in our
family chat.  My sister Sarah and I continued the conversation in
private.  At the time, we hated working at Starbucks, but these days
we share the same pining nostalgia for our first job.

"I still think about it too," I said.  "I miss the small talk.  All
the free coffee you could drink.  Operating a giant industrial
dishwasher."

"And the Clover press," said Sarah.  "I loved how when I used it,
customers would marvel at me like I was a scientist.  They'd ask me
questions about it, even though I had no idea how it worked."

A good Clover spiel was important.  Mine went thusly: _Well, sir, it's
simply a reverse extraction through a micron filter, using carefully
calibrated settings to match the coffee's ideal temperature and steep
time._

That's what I got today.  Thanks for stopping by - I hope you have a
wonderful Thursday.  Here's to almost making it to the end of the
week, hang in there everybody.
