---
title: broken toothbrushes, house mock-ups, and rodney's still life
banner: 2020-10-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Late last night, Marissa and I filed into the bathroom.  We took turns
wringing a near-empty tube of toothpaste onto our toothbrushes.  I
stared blankly into the mirror, raised the brush to my mouth, and
heard a loud _snap_.

I froze, then a wave of relief washed over me when I realize it was
just my toothbrush that broke in half.  Marissa and I broke the
silence with laughter.

Because of quarantine, I haven't been to the dentist in so long, I
guess part of me is just expecting my teeth to start falling out.
_This is it_, I thought.

Once we had finished laughing, we discussed how to best parlay back
into the world of good oral hygiene without feeling too judged.

"I think we should just say that we have _never_ been to the dentist,"
Marissa laughed.  "It's basically true."

"Maybe we can take it further and just say we weren't familiar with
the whole concept of dentists," I mused.  "Nobody ever told us they
existed.  It's not my fault - just another failure of public
education."

_Sip_.  Happy Wednesday.  How's your morning going?  It took a while
to warm up today.  Climbing out of my bed felt like climbing out of a
coffin.  But I think after a shower, brushing my teeth with the broken
end of my toothbrush, and two cups of coffee, I'm finally ready to
begin the day.

I feel like after putting up with all the meetings this past Monday, I
had some good karma come my way.  Yesterday, I didn't have a single
meeting until the late afternoon, and it's the same situation today.
That means I get the whole morning to put on a podcast, clean up my
notes, and dig into some interesting, deep thinking kind of work.

Meanwhile, every hour or so I open a browser tab to check on the data
migration on the new NAS.  Would you like an update?  The failures on
the old drive were even worse than I thought.  The old server has four
disks total, and two of them our mirrors.  That means for each drive,
there is one drive that is just a complete copy.  I discovered that I
actually have _two_ drives that are offline.

If I had lost one drive _and_ its mirror, that would have meant
disaster.  If both a drive and its mirror our gone, than the data is
gone - the equivalent of throwing it into lake Manona or hurling it
into traffic.  But fortunately, the second drive to go offline was
just part of the other pair.  To sum up, I unknowingly won a dangerous
game of Russian roulette of hard drive failures.

The export has been happening for the past four days.  I have only 0.3
terabytes left to move, then it doesn't matter what happens to the
drives.  Maybe as a science experiment, I'll keep them around to see
how much time I still had.

Meanwhile, Marissa was working on a pretty interesting project.  Using
a picture of our house taken from the front yard, she was using some
photo editing software to make a mock-up of the spots she wants to
paint, and even split it out into two different options.

"What do you think?" she said.  "It's kind of a hack job, but I think
it gets the point across."

"It _definitely_ does," I said.  "For how long you've been talking
about painting our siding and panels, I confess I had no idea what
you're talking about.  Now I get it.  Nice job with this."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-house.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 house" src="/images/2020-10-07-house.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>Before
and After (mock-up)</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

"Thanks," said Marissa.  "Rodney helped me."

Rodney didn't really help, per-say.  To keep him occupied while she
figured out the software, Marissa handed him her phone and let him
take pictures.  Rodney did his usual thing, squirming around the room
taking close-up, blurry shots of the dogs, his toys, and other things.
I still insist that Rodney may have a good eye for pictures.  Some of
them, the ones where he doesn't cover up the lens with his finger or
accidentally take a one second video instead of a picture, aren't bad.

And so without further ado, I present _Still Life, as seen by Rodney_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-1.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney 1" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>
<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-2.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney 2" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>
<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-3.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney 3" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>
<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-4.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney 4" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-4.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>
<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-5.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney 5" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-5.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

And of course, he also included a selfie.  Doesn't really fit the
theme, but who am I to judge?  I'm not the artist here.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-selfie.jpg">
    <img alt="2020 10 07 rodney selfie" src="/images/2020-10-07-rodney-selfie.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

For dinner, we had to improvise a bit.  Woodman's goofed up our usual
routine, and we had to bump Marissa's night to Wednesday and figure
something out for Tuesday.  I went with my fastest version of Penne in
pancietta red sauce, and just because I had some cycles to spare while
the sauce was simmering, we also had the rest of the tomatoes stuffed
with bread crumbs and cheese.

"It's too hot," complained Rodney.  "I can't eat it."

I reached across the table and stuck my thumb in Rodney's bowl.  "It's
not hot, dude - just eat it."

Rodney pouted, pleading silently with his eyes.

"Can I have some _cream_?" he asked.

"Some cream?" said Marissa, confused.

"I think ever since I added sour cream to his chili to cool it down,
he thinks we can do that with _every_ meal," I laughed.

"You can't put sour cream in your pasta dude - that's weird," said
Marissa.

"But," I said wagging a finger.  "I suppose we could put a scoop of
ricotta in your pasta.  That... wouldn't be terrible."

Rodney nodded and smiled.  "Yes please," he said politely.

"Dude, you're a wingus," I teased as I stirred in the cheese.

"No - YOU'RE a wingus," Rodney yelled.

"Hey hey hey," I said, backpedaling out of the yelling match.  "Sit on
your butt, and eat your pasta."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day, everyone.
