---
title: body fluids, handwriting narcissism, and big brother rodney
banner: 2020-05-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  And happy Thursday.  I'm just beginning my
fourth day of my summer job as a full time Dad, so arguably the
weekend doesn't mean much to me anymore.  But this morning my thoughts
are still with the nine-to-five warriors, especially those on the
Foundation Configuration team at Zendesk.  Hang in there, comrades.
It's almost Friday, and soon enough you'll be punching out for the
week, and you'll be able to enjoy the weekend.

_Sip_.  Miles is doing great.  So far, his theme has been long
stretches of perfect infant tranquility punctuated by short explosive
sessions of angry body fluids.  The miles way is to sleep angelically
for a few hours, then scream while you puke, crap, and piss into the
air.  I was christened last night during a diaper change - the little
booger sniped my left eye with the gross little squirt gun between his
legs.

But like I said, these moments of splashing body fluids are brief, and
hardly anything to complain about when he'll spend the rest of the
hour sleeping like a perfect little bug in your lap.

We had a great day yesterday.  We spent most of the morning just
waiting around at the hospital, expecting to leave sometime in the
late morning.  We didn't even make any plans for lunch.  But some
tests ran a little later than expected, which left us lounging around,
napping, and grazing on the snacks still remaining in our stash.
Ironically, the test that delayed us was a follow up on Marissa's
platelet count.

"Those damn platelets," she griped.  "First they cheat me out of an
epidural, and now they're keeping us late."

I took the time to fill out the paper work for Miles' birth
certificate, using my best handwriting to pen his name for the first
time in an official capacity.  My handwriting is tidy, even on the bad
day.  But for the occasion, I broke out my absolute best,
evenly-spaced printed capital letters.  I handed the stack of papers
for Marissa to proofread.

"Miles Dirk Recker," she read aloud with a smile.  "Gosh, you have the
perfect handwriting for this."

She's right.  Not to brag, but I'm a little offended that nobody has
offered to purchase my handwriting and turn it into a type face.  I'm
a little offended that the government hasn't asked me to transcribe a
letter in preparation of someday introducing mankind to aliens.  I'm
also a little narcissistic about it.

"Platelet count is still low, but rising," said our nurse Dorothy as
she entered our room.  "It shouldn't be a problem - you guys are free
to go."

We packed up our things, and after snapping a few pics of Miles in the
room, we carried him in the car seat down to the hospital lobby.  Each
doctor, nurse, and patient we passed offered us a quiet
_congratulations_ through masks and face shields.  We made our way
into the parking garage, and Marissa took a deep breath.

"It feels so good to be outside," she sighed.  "Do you remember how
weird this felt with Rodney?" she asked.

"Yeah," I laughed.  "I remember feeling suddenly abandoned."

"And I was tired.  So tired, like I had no idea what time or day it
was, and I couldn't believe this was happening," added Marissa.

"How do you feel now," I asked.

"I feel great.  I feel rested, and this doesn't feel weird at all,"
she replied.

"Yeah, I feel the same," I added.  "Honestly, I think I slept in
today.  And right now it kind of feels like I'm just out running
errands or loading groceries into the car."  I clicked Miles' car seat
in place and gave it a jostle.  "Maybe this time around, we were smart
enough to take advantage of - you know - a private room monitored by
healthcare professionals."

Our first stop was Heath's house.  We parked in the driveway, and
after a minute, Rodney and his new friend Eliza emerged from the back
yard.  "Where is my brother?" he called out.  "I want to see my baby
brother!"  Rodney made his way around the car and pressed his face to
the dark glass of the passenger side door where Miles sat.  Marissa
popped open the car door.

"Oh honey," said Rodney.  He reached out to touch Miles' hand.  "I'm
your big brother.  I _gochu_."

Rodney had a wonderful time at Heath's house.  This morning, Jess sent
us over some professional quality action shots of Rodney and Eliza
eating popcorn, pushing each other on the swing, and raising all kinds
of childish mayhem in their beautiful home.  And Rodney had nothing
but good things to say.

As we pulled out onto the road, we began to anguish about what we
wanted to pick up for lunch.

"How about _tillo's_?" said Rodney quietly from the back seat.

"I could eat Portillo's again," said Marissa with a shrug.

After getting home and eating Portillo's at the table, I got to work
unpacking our bags while Marissa and Rodney hung out with Miles in the
living room.  Rodney sat in the big comfy chair, holding Miles in his
lap.  Every few minutes, he'd take his eyes off the TV to nuzzle Miles
or gently brush his face.  "Oh honey," he whispered.  "I _gochu_.
It's OK."

After putting Rodney to bed and a quick Zoom session with our college
friends, Marissa put Miles down in the living room and joined me on
the back porch.  I had a crisp Fantasy Factory beer in a chilled glass
waiting for her.  She approached the table, and with the gravity of a
religious ceremony or a royal coronation, she had her first sip of
beer in nine months.  She sank into her chair, letting out a deep
sigh.

"Rodney seems so mature now," she said.  I nodded, and took a sip of
my own beer.

"His maturity has always happened in, like, these quantum leaps," I
replied.  I drew a stair shape in the air with my finger to emphasize
my point.  "I think coming home to Miles was one of those quantum
leaps.  He's operating on a whole new level now."

"And he was actually really helpful today," added Marissa.  "I put him
to work, he was getting things from the baby drawer.  He's killing
it."

Rodney was already a good kid, but _big brother Rodney_ feels like a
totally different presence.  And we're grateful to have him around.
