---
title: friends on the computer, po'boys, and swinging axes
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning! Happy Thursday. We're almost done with this week, and I
think that's worth celebrating. I love the point in a busy work week
when you 'come up for air', so to speak, and the weekend seems much
closer than you thought. Our weekend waits a mere day away. I think
we're going to make it, everyone. I'm feeling pretty good this morning,
and looking forward to attacking a day of work, getting home, and
cooking something tasty.

Yesterday morning began with Rodney waking up in his room, peeking his
head out the door, and moaning *helooOOOOOO* into our dark hallway until
somebody heard him. Of course, sitting only in our bedroom, not only
could I hear Rodney, but I could look over and see him from where I was
typing at the computer. After finishing my morning journal entry, I
beckoned him over, and soon we were downstairs grabbing something to
eat.

I set Rodney up on the couch with a fresh outfit, a bowl of peanut
butter cereal, and his favorite YouTube water slide playlist. He also
manage to steal a bite from my cereal bar. Once he settled in on the
couch, I left Rodney to remotely join morning our team's stand-up from
our dining room table.

The meeting continued, and hearing the commotion of our work talk mixed
with joking around, Rodney got up off the couch and joined me at the
table, leaning into the camera. I turned my laptop so we would both be
in frame. Rodney started to *ham* it up, waving, miming with his Green
Dino stuffed animal, and leaning in close to the camera. "What's your
take on configuration languages, Rodney? Is this functional style
experiment worth exploring?" said my teammate Alex.

"*Uhduhuhderuhderuhder*… don't know. Hey, green dino!" Rodney hoisted
Green Dino right up to the webcam. His antics were a welcomed brief
comedic relief to our meeting, and Rodney appreciated the opportunity to
*say 'hi' to Daddy's friends on the computer* - something he now thinks
can take place at any time on any screen in the house. You should have
seen how disappointed he was to learn he couldn't say goodnight to
everyone on the computer screen.

I worked through the morning, and soon Marissa returned with the dogs
from agility class. We moved to the kitchen to heat up some lunch.
Rodney and I had leftover stamppot with red cabbage and chicken sausage.
I doused mine generously with spicy horseradish sauce. Marissa, feeling
queasy just opted for a grapefruit. "You guys go ahead," she advised
"I'm going to do one of my weird pregnancy breakfasts."

I finished up lunch, then set up in our bedroom for some meetings,
taking a beer with me. After finishing lunch and putting Rodney to bed,
Marissa joined me in the bedroom to make dinner plans before leaving for
another errand. That afternoon, she left for UW campus to hang up some
of her art, which would be on display in a hallway in the continued
education building.

I worked the rest of the afternoon, and by the time I shut my laptop
Marissa had returned home. I crashed on the couch, followed closely by
Rodney, who asked to watch a movie. "No dude, sorry," I said while
slumping backwards into the cushions. "Daddy had a long day, we're going
to watch his videos." I queued up some YouTube videos, then feeling my
eyes get heavy, I switched on some water slides for Rodney in hopes that
he would let me drift off to sleep until dinner. I slept as much as you
could have with a toddler bouncing on your stomach and legs.

We had talked earlier about going downtown for dinner, but the evening
darkness and chill was seducing us into an easier evening, and we
decided to eat at the Ale Asylum instead. We found a quiet table in the
back, ordered some drinks, and soon our food arrived. I ordered a shrimp
po'boy that was the size of a regulation football, and to my absolute
horror, I finished everything on my plate. "I can't help it," I said to
Marissa in the spirit of repentance. "This food goes down so smooth." I
had even removed the bread to pick at the shrimp, in hopes that would
curb my appetite, but I finished my bread too.

As we sat enjoying the last few bits of our meal, Marissa and I griped
about the week. "It's a long one," I said. "I'm tired, and I could use a
weekend."

I finished a second beer while chaperoning Rodney at the pinball
machines. Maybe their initial charm and wonder have worn off, because
Rodney was much more relaxed about them. He played through a five dollar
bill, which he politely asked the bartender to break for him, adding
"Thank… YOU SO MUCH!"

Marissa and I agreed to 'tag team' bedtime. That meant she takes care of
the bath, pajamas, and teeth, and I get the bedtime story as well as the
long meandering bedtime routine which Rodney sometimes takes advantage
of. As Marissa drew a bath, I collapsed on our bed and shut my eyes,
immediately waking up to a showered and pajama-clad Rodney leaping onto
the bed with me. The shrimp po'boy felt like a bomb sitting in my
stomach. "I'm sick from the Ale Asylum too," said Marissa commiserating
with me. "It goes down so smooth," I said. "I think I just need to work
through the pain."

Last night was a work night. Along with Wednesday chores, we had to
break down two tables in the basement and get them in the car so Marissa
could carry them to the dump. We spent twenty minutes trying to find an
allen wrench, then in a stroke of clarity, Marissa grabbed her saw
instead. "I'm just going to saw the legs off," said Marissa, widening
her stance and holding the table up with one hand. One table down.

I managed to get the second table upstairs and outside on the deck. The
legs were made of metal, so no sawing could be done, but I grabbed a
rusty axe that was sitting in our shed and swung it at the top shelf. It
broke in half, making a loud *pop* that reverberated off the neighboring
houses. I felt satisfied. How often do you get to swing an axe, and when
you do, how often does it work this well?

We concluded the night by moving our bookshelf into the basement. Our
bedroom is looking eerily empty, which is encouraging, because floor
refinishing week is just around the corner, and it feels good to make
some noticeable progress on the massive undertaking.

Marissa and I crashed on the couch. I got an Italian Ice cup from the
freezer spiked with a half shot of tequila. We watched the last hour of
*Close Encounters of the Third Kind*. It was a good night.

I hope you have a great day today. As always, thanks for reading. I
sincerely hope you too find an excuse to swing an axe at something this
week - I highly recommend it.

