---
title: apple crappies, water bottle flips, and a note on hoarding
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone. We finally made it through another week. I know
I normally kick things off with a tongue in cheek congratulatory *we
made it through a week*, but this week there is an uncomfortable amount
of truth in that. It's been a crazy week, and more than ever I'm feeling
grateful to be here writing at my desk on a Friday. One more work day,
than we'll have a weekend to re-cooperate and figure things out.

Yesterday was a busy, social day. Rodney stirred from his room in the
early morning, sending his quiet *Guys? Hello?* out into the hallway. I
got him out of bed and changed him, then together we headed downstairs
so I could set him up with some breakfast.

"What do you want to eat, dude?" I asked.

"Ummm… *apple crappy*," he replied, plopping down in his usual spot on
the couch beside his stuffed animal. I suppose that requires some
context. Rodney used to love Rice Crispy bars. He refers to them as rice
*crappies*, and from then on, any kind of snack just because a form of a
*crappy* - including the Dutch Apple Fruit bars I started buying from
Jenny Street. In our home, they're now known simply as *apple crappy*.

As Rodney remained on the couch and watched the ninja turtles, I
returned upstairs with a big cup of coffee and commenced a very social,
meeting heavy work day. Marissa, Rodney, and the dogs filed in and out
of my room throughout their morning routine as I attended morning
stand-up, a design session, and an all-company meeting about the
pandemic. I flung my headphones off at 12 and trotted down the stairs to
make some lunch.

"Want some lunch, dude?" I asked Rodney boisterously while hopping off
the last step of our staircase. Rodney paused the TV and followed me
into the kitchen. I grabbed some slices of wheat bread and grated a
block of white cheddar. Using fresh mozzarella leftover from the pizzas,
I made two grilled cheese sandwiches. Also borrowing from a play out of
Chef John's playbook, I sprinkled cheddar cheese on the outside faces of
the sandwich. As the bread toasted in the butter, the cheese melted into
the bread and turned crispy. I joined Marissa and Rodney at the table
with my own sandwich and plate of leftover brussels sprouts.

"So I'm a little salty, family. I thought these sandwiches would be a
bigger hit," I said while chewing. "Look at this!" I pulled two slices
of bread apart, revealing a gooey, melty center. "Hey I'm sorry," I
continued. "I just expected you bingisses to be raving about these
sandwiches, but nobody is making a big deal out of them." Marissa
laughed, and Rodney picked up a wedge of his sanwich, nibbling off the
corner.

After lunch, I headed back upstairs to finish out my workday. Ollie
followed close behind. A half hour later, Marissa wandered into our
bedroom looking for Ollie. She stopped in her tracks, seeing Ollie
contently curled up in my lap.

"This is so funny," said Marissa. "I think he really does like working.
He's office dog."

"YEAH, maybe it's time to get back to work, dad," I said throwing my
voice on Ollie's behalf.

And it's true. Ollie being the *office dog* was part joke and part
wishful thinking, but he dutifully lingered around my desk most of
yesterday, his head perched attentively. There's a new slack channel at
work where people are sharing pictures of their remote work setups. I
stood on a chair to get a shot of my proud war room corner in our
bedroom, and sure enough, Ollie can be seen laying beneath my chair. In
the photo, he even looks a little annoyed with me that I paused work.

At quitting time, I locked my laptop screen and crawled into bed, hoping
to steal a few minutes for a nap. As soon as my head hit the pillow, I
heard Rodney's still, small voice in the hallway. *Anyone? Guys?*

"You wanna get up, dude?" I called back in the hallway. Rodney appeared
at the door in his pajamas, and after getting out of bed, we both made
our way down the stairs. Marissa ordered some Portillo's delivery, and
Rodney and I sat on the couch and watched YouTube videos.

"Hey mamma, watch this trick shot," I said to Marissa getting up off the
couch. I grabbed a half empty water bottle of the table and flipped it
towards the mantle. It flopped on its side and tumbled to the floor. I
bent down to pick it up and try again.

Even thought water bottle flipping was only cool back in… 2012? It has
returned full force in our house. Waiting for our food to arrive, we
wandered around the living room with water bottles, calling out ledges
and surfaces for trick shots. Things even got a little out of hand while
eating dinner. "OK, NO MORE WATER BOTTLES," shouted Marissa, collecting
them from me and Rodney and hiding them in her lap for the rest of
dinner.

After dinner, Marissa put Rodney to bed and I skated over to the
Walgreen's to pick up a prescription. When I returned, Marissa was
giving Rodney a bath upstairs.

"Toilet paper is in full stock over there," I said. Marissa pursed her
lips and shook her head. Of course we haven't joined the panicked stock
piling, supply hoarding crowd, but we've been keeping tabs on the
situation for when we run out of toilet paper and need to buy a single
pack - not for irrational end-of-the-world reasons - but for normal
toilet paper reasons. We had a working theory that the toilet paper
stock would only be affected in stores where wealthier people shopped,
and sure enough our lovable, sketchy Walgreen's on the corner was
unaffected.

While Marissa finished putting Rodney to bed, I practiced Dutch and
flopped down on the couch besides Ziggy. I sailed off to sleep for a
glorious hour. It was a much needed cheat for an exhausting week. Later
that night, my internal bedtime skewed from the evening nap, Marissa and
I sat up and chatted in bed.

"We're probably going to get sick, but we're probably not going to die,"
I said, putting my phone down in frustration. "It's so hard. I want to
stay informed of what's going on, but there's just too much commentary
and here-say and people high-jacking this for their own shitty
opinions." Marissa listened empathetically.

"I'm worried," she replied. "And it's even got to my Facebook timeline."
Marissa has always bragged about how she curated her Facebook follows to
the point that, no matter what is going on in the world, her feed is
limited to strictly happy dog related things. "But even the dog people
are going nuts about it," she continued.

This is a scary time. Even though the mortality numbers are dwindling,
the whole thing has made me dissappointed in our behavior as a human
race. A few days ago, I made a salty tweet teasing the toilet paper
hoarders for buying out stores, but I'd be lying if I said there wasn't
a real bitterness and frustration under that. I'm disgusted with the
people hoarding supplies. The day I made that tweet, Marissa witnessed
an old guy wandering around Target looking for toilet paper. "I'm not
stock-piling," he said. "I'm out, and I just need one pack." And I think
that story made me so angry, I had to make light of it so it wouldn't
eat away at me.

And the most evil thing about it is that the selfishness just leads to
more fear. People who normally wouldn't think to hoard supplies in their
basement see an empty shelf at Target or Costco, and an irrational fear
is triggered, and soon their contributing to the problem.

Imagine studying a species at the zoo. An animal that, at the first sign
of danger, hoards provisions at the expense of the animals living around
it is a dumb and selfish animal. That doesn't make for a very durable
and adaptive species, does it? Whether you're a God fearing Christian
and you think we serve a higher purpose to live meekly and care for
people around us, or you just think humans are better animals than this,
we all have plenty of reasons to show some courage and resist the urge
to hoard supplies.

Please don't hoard. Stores like Target and Costco exist to distribute
supplies in our society. Maybe they shouldn't be profiting off of that,
but I think emptying out these stores is an early, needless declaration
of selfishness, and chances are if you were healthy and wealthy enough
to stock pile essentials in your home, then you probably screwed
somebody over who wasn't.

Thanks for stopping by this morning. Stay safe, and be a good comrade -
only buy what you need.

