---
title: huevos rancheros, air plants, and feeling tired
banner: 2020-11-30.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  Right now it feels like there
isn't enough coffee in the world to help me wake up.  The first mug I
finished while showering, and it practically passed through my tired
body like water.  I'm well into my second cup, and I'm still acting
like a magical well spring of alertness awaits me at the button of
this mug.

It's a rough one today.  I had a relaxing Thanksgiving weekend, but I
have this really bad habit of staying up late and sleeping in late on
days where I don't work.  On regular weekends that doesn't really make
for much of a problem, but on holiday weekends like this one I can
apparently do some real damage to my sleep cycle.  Compound that with
an earlier Monday morning start.  Trying to fit my morning routine
into a block of time that is thirty minute shorter was certainly
interesting.  I practically had to resort to my half awake dolphin
brain to finish cleaning the kitchen and ordering groceries for this
week.

I'm tired, but it fits the mood today.  I'm on my last set of clean
clothes.  I'm wearing a beanie to hide the fact that I haven't shaved
in almost a whole two weeks.  I think it's going to be a ruddier day,
muscling through the tiredness to get things back on the rails.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  How does your fridge look?  After
cleaning out the last of our Thanksgiving leftovers, ours is looking
absolutely bare.  We're down to one sippie cup's worth of milk.  Our
meat drawer is empty.  Our cheese drawer is completely empty, if you
don't count that weird little package of feta that has been in there
longer than I remember.  I thought about finishing the groceries
yesterday, but the day got away from us with church and working around
the house.  So food wise it was a "scrape by" kind of day.

Lately, when our fridge and pantry are bare, our go to meal has been
huevos rancheros.  What do you need in your fridge to whip up some
huevos rancheros?  All you need is some corn tortillas, a can of black
beans, and old jar of salsa, and some eggs.  Sure, if you want to be
fancy, you can jazz it up with a red onion, cilantro, and lime, but
the bare bones fridge proof version works just as well too.

Most surprisingly of all, huevos rancheros was responsible for getting
all three of us on the same page when it comes to runny eggs.  Marissa
wasn't too crazy about the concept of a runny yellow egg - that is
until I threw one on top of a warm tortilla and a sharp red onion next
to some chilled salsa.  Rodney also likes huevos rancheros night.
Last night as we were setting the table, after he climbed into his
booster seat, I caught him ripping egg white pieces off the platter.
Rodney of course only intentionally eats the egg whites.

"These eggs are SO delicious dada," he said trying to butter me up.
"Thank you for making _eggies_."  Meanwhile, he was strategically
trying to cut out his yolk so he could get a full bite of tasteless
gummy egg white.  What a weirdo.

_Sip_.  Update - I've now finished my second cup of coffee.  It
appears there was no magical burst of energy waiting at the bottom of
this one.  We'll see about the other.  But while I was up, I
fortunately remembered to water my plants.  Thanks to all of the
hustle and bustle getting ready for Thursday's dinner, I forgot to
water the plants in the kitchen.  There is one pot on the high shelf
by our back door - it's long dangling leafy stems a testament to how
well it's doing in that sunny corner.  And than there are a couple of
"air plants" hanging off the side of our cubbard.

To water the air plants, I've been instructed by Marissa to just pluck
them out of their bowl and hold them under a running faucet for a few
seconds.  Consequently, when I water them it feels more like a
superstitious tick than it does an actual chore.  Almost by magic,
they've managed to find the strength to get large and curly from only
a quick swipe of water every Thursday night.  What a weird plant.

I'm sorry I'm so scatter brained today.  I think it's partly due to
how tired I am, but also because this is the first morning entry I've
done in a while.  It's good to get back into a more regular rhythm,
but during the change-off I don't have much to write about.  I've
already thoroughly covered our weekend activities.  I don't even think
I have any new Rodney stories to share.

Right now all I can think about is how tired I'm feeling, but the
coffee is finally starting to make an impact, and I'm feeling a
glimmer of hope that I'll be alert and ready to rock for my meeting in
a half hour.  Also, thinking about the next opportunity I'll have to
take a nap is giving me hope.  It may not be tonight, but it's
Marissa's turn to cook tomorrow, and just before Tuesday dinner is a
prime time to steel an extra hour of sleep.  Thinking about tomorrow's
nap is giving me the motivation to earn it and keep plugging away at
my todo list.  With Christmas break around the corner, I have just a
couple of work weeks to build some momentum with the intern project
and keep attacking my own little holiday todo list.  There are cards
to write, presents to wrap, and a particularly important 2020 hip hop
mixtape to finish making in time to go out with the Christmas cards
this year.

And with that bit of rambling, I'm finally at word count.  This
rambling entry goes out to any one else who is feeling tired.  Hang in
there, the next nap is right around the corner.  Just hang in there
and keep slugging coffee, we're almost there.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Happy Monday, everyone.
