---
title: flossing, paw patrol liturgy, and shared brain syndrome
banner: 2020-10-21.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  If you're here reading this, I'm sending good
vibes your way.  I hope you're feeling awake and fresh, and if not, I
hope you brewed enough coffee to at least fake it this morning.  At
the very least, we just need to hang on until lunch time, right?

I'm feeling good today.  This morning I caught up on chores and
straightened up the kitchen.  I read for a while.  I showered.  I'm
feeling no less than 100%.

As long as you don't count my teeth.  Particularly, my gums are a
throbbing, sore, bloody mess.  Before rolling into bed last night, I
flossed, carefully threading in between each tooth and gum.

"You know that you don't have to thread it between each tooth, right?"
said Marissa.  "Why don't you just go straight down?"

"Because I have a metal wire behind both my tops and bottoms," I said
wincing in pain."

"Right, I do too," said Marissa.  "But once you get underneath it, you
can just move the floss back and forth, right?"

I shook my head.  "I'm special," I said with hate in my voice.  "_My_
metal wire is glued to each of my teeth."

Marissa grimaced.  I carried on with the bathroom mirror blood show.
By the time I reached my bottom molars, the floss string had already
snapped twice, and I was working with the longest scrap of string.

The weirdest part of all is that when I woke up this morning, there
was no parade.  There was no gift card in the mail.  My childhood
dentist wasn't waiting in front of our house this morning to
congratulate me for a floss job well done.  It's almost as if flossing
is something healthy people do, and not an achievement.

Maybe you all would be more impressed with me if you saw how swollen
my gums were right now.  You can't.  Nobody will today, and that is
exactly why quarantine is the perfect time to get on track with the
flossing.  Growing up, I always hated going to the dentist in the
middle of a school day because after the annual flossing, I'd return
with big puffy gums that would hang over my teeth like bloody gauze.
A few spots in my gum line even reached all the way down to meet the
bottom of my teeth.  I looked ridiculous.

"You know if you continue flossing, your gums will get healthier, and
soon they won't get puffy and inflamed," the dentist said.

_Yeah, but they only get puffy when I floss, so I could just not do
that too,_ I thought.

Fast forward to now, everyone is indefinitely grounded in their homes.
I have the ultimate, ever-lasting excuse to not go anywhere and not be
seen by anyone.  I may never have an opportunity like this again.
2020 has been a year of terrible things, so why not add flossing to
the mix.  Compared to everything else thats happened, walking around
my house with a decrepit mouth for a few weeks pales in comparison.
So I raise my coffee mug and say onward - let the blood run like a
river out of my mouth, and let my gums sing with pain until the
gingivitis debt is paid in full.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  I had a crazy day of work, but
all the stress and chaos washed away at quitting time with the help of
a happy hour beer, a nap, a delicious dinner from "Chef Rissa", and a
focused session of playtime with Rodney.

Rodney re-ignited a passion for Paw Patrol.  His old action figures
stand proudly on his desk.  We dragged the once forgotten Adventure
Bay tower out of the basement and restored it to its former glory in
the middle of the play room.  We have since added the new _Mighty
Twins_ play set to his collection.

The _Might Twins_, as Rodney explained, are twin golden retriever
puppies that appear in the _Mighty Pups_ universe of the Paw Patrol.
The twins, Ella and Tuck, possess the powers to grow respectively
really big and really small.  And when they touch noses, they glow for
some reason.

Rodney and I took turns animating the action figures.  His tolerance
for my non-canon nonsense was at an all time low.  Each time I
attempted to take the story of the rails, Rodney patiently corrected
me.

"OK, dada," said Rodney.  "Now call an emergency."

Using a tiny Ryder action figure as my personal avatar, I leaned over
the tower ledge.  "C'mon you puppies!  We got work to do!"

"No no no," said Rodney shaking his head.  "You say, _PAW Patrol... to
the lookout!_"

We did another take.  Rodney made all the pups reply in unison, _Ryder
needs us!_ I couldn't help but be impressed with Rodney's strict
adherence to the Paw Patrol liturgy.

Playing with him by his rules was the least I could do.  Rodney was in
top form all day yesterday.  He helped Momma rake all the leaves
outside.  He quickly finished every morsel of food on his plate.  He
was focused and attentive during his entire piano lesson.  We forget
about four year olds are real people too.  Just like us, they have
good days and bad days.  They have days where everything seems
pointless, and also days where they thrive off expectations.

After putting Rodney to bed, Marissa and I continued the movie of the
week and newest edition to the series _Movies I Remember as Awesome
That Actually Suck_.

I don't know what I saw in _The Butterfly Effect_ when it first came
out.  At the time it felt brooding, intricate, and gritty.  Other than
the core idea of time travel, the movie is just a hot mess of mixed
messages, nonsense story telling, and terrible writing.

As you could imagine, Marissa and I are well versed in bad movies by
now.  One common smell they all possess is what we refer to as _shared
brain syndrome_.  When characters speak to each other in a _shared
brain_ scenario, there's no room for normal human things like
confusion, shock, being caught off guard, and other genuine human
reactions.  It's as if the characters share a single brain, and just
act as one dimensional puppets of what the script writer is thinking.

In the movie, an accidentally crippled Ashton Kutcher tries to drown
himself in the bath tub.  His friend enters the bathroom and hurriedly
shuts the water off.  Having just saved him from death, his friend
looks him in the eye and says "You forgot to leave the toaster on the
ledge."

Ashton Kutcher, still coughing and spitting water replied, "Lenny
likes Pop Tarts."

So not only does his friend interrupt his suicide and make a dumb
joke, but Ashton Kutcher, without skipping a beat, also follows it up
with a dumb joke.  Not even remotely a normal human interaction.
Simply stunning, isn't it?

Keep an eye out for shared brain scenario, especially with movies that
try to sell themselves as quick and clever.  Too often, it just turns
into a puppet show where the writer talks to themselves and forgets to
make the characters different.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful day today.
