---
title: hy-vee, pull-ups in the wash, a story about my dad
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to Sunday.  I hope where you're
waking up, there's plenty of coffee and quiet time to go around.

After cleaning up the kitchen and brewing a pot of coffee, I got
sidetracked while taking notes for today's entry, winding up in a
reddit thread on the Madison subreddit.  "Is it just me, or is the
East side Hy-Vee going downhill?" asked a user.  Being a regular at
the East side Hy-Vee, I felt compelled to swoop in and defend my
grocery store.

Not that I would give them an absolutely glowing recommendation.  The
east side Hy-Vee won my loyalty - not from being perfect - but by
being the "devil I know".  My grocery store has some glaring issues.
The cashier turnover is so bad, it's almost laughable.  I have to
wonder why they even bother putting _Employeed since [year]_ on their
name tags, because in the case of the cashiers it's almost always the
current year.  Hy-Vee produce also has issues.  Rodney and I routinely
have to dig through mealy onions, stubby russet potatoes, and
yellowing parsley to find the good stuff.  And I'm pretty sure that
whoever is in charge of stocking the basket of shallots thinks they
can get away with throwing in some small yellow onions instead.
Hy-Vee can also be slow to restock the essentials.  It's maddening how
often they run out of things like butter, milk, and paper towels.

But there are also plenty of good things to say about the East side
Hy-Vee as too.  What won me over was the layout of the store.  They
keep things pretty organize, and they don't introduce a lot of
surprises.  Rodney and I can get in and out pretty quickly.  And even
though they churn through apathetic high school aged cashiers as
quickly as a Taco Bell might, there are plenty of good long-time
employees staffing the meat department and the bakery.  Also,
shout-out to the lady at the bakery that gives Rodney a free cookie
whenever we visit.

_Sip_.  So with my two cents thrown into this pointless Internet
argument, I guess I can finally recap yesterday.  Yesterday morning
was filled with cleaning and laundry.  But opening up the washing
machine to move Rodney's clothes over, I was greeted by an odd smell,
and his clothes were covered with little white mushy beads.  Holding
my nose and digging through the pile, I found the culprit.  A swollen,
balled up pull-up was rolling around in the clothes.

And not just one pull-up.  While digging through the sopping remains,
I discovered about five more pull-ups, and, with the stoic,
professional decorum of a crime scene investigator, I separated them
from the rest of his wash to assess the damage.

I think this one was on me.  For the last few weeks, Rodney has risen
to the occasion of putting himself to bed, but it's clear that we were
missing some crucial pull-up & hamper information in the bedtime
routine training manual.

After running his clothes through the wash again, Rodney and I dumped
them onto his bedroom floor for sorting and folding.  Rodney picked up
his little blue stuffed animal and studied the strange white beads
still clinging to its fur.  Rodney had a worried look.

"Dada," he said quietly.  "You wash blue guy again?  Please?"

"Sure dude," I smiled.  "I got you."

In between all the duplicate loads of wash, I kept hacking on our
chores website.  And the coding binge paid off - later that afternoon,
I declared victory on the extra large project card that had been
clogging our project board.  It felt so gratifying to delete our old
system.  And better yet, now that I got things working, I'm free to
tinker with new enhancements and pretty the code up behind the scenes
without fear of clogging up the chores workflow.

{% include figure.html
filename='chores-final.png'
caption="And of course while finishing the chores site, I've fallen
behind in chores." %}

"Can we make it do something special when we finish all of our chores
for the day?" asked Marissa while taking the new UI for a spin.

"Oh, you mean like a random gif or something?" I replied.

"I think it should be a dancing corgi," said Marissa with confidence.

After dinner and getting Rodney to bed (this time, giving him more
explicit instructions on where his pull-ups go), Marissa and I hit the
video editing lab.  Her alcohol ink brand comparison video is the last
card on the project board, and we're determined to throw a perfect
game this week.

"Ugh, I'm having a hard time finding the energy to do this right now,"
said Marissa burying her hands in her head.

"It's OK," I replied.  "If you're burnt out, we can pick up on this
tomorrow.  We have all Sunday too, remember."

"Let's see how much we have to go," said Marissa flicking her hand
over the trackpad.  We both watched the iMovie window scan across the
seemingly never-ending video clip.

"OK, so we have a long way to go," sighed Marissa.  "I think that's a
wrap - let's go have a beer."  And with that, we were done for the
night.

"We'll crush it tomorrow," I said assuring her.  "We can even order
out for dinner so we have more time to do this.  I've been craving
Chinese food lately."

I think I'll close this entry with a story about my dad, since it is
Father's day and all.  My dad had accumulated a lot of random
audiophile stuff.  I assume that in the late eighties and early
nineties, since personal computers were still warming up, being a
techie meant having things like tube amps, recording gear, and high
end boom boxes with big CD changers.  Among the interesting gear
stashed in our basement were two giant chestnut cased speaker towers.

My dad sold these speakers to a guy in Ohio on ebay.  Given the
delicate nature of this kind of audio equipment, the slightest jostle
or nudge could introduce irreparable damage to the sensitive parts,
and shipping it by mail was out of the question.  My dad decided to
load the speakers in his car and drive them out to Ohio himself.  And
so, on a random day in the late summer, my dad and I jumped in the car
and drove to Ohio.

In the days before convenient GPS and Google maps, navigating places
was a lot more of an adventure.  We had the printed MapQuest
directions lying on the dashboard, but when it came to finding the
actual building, you had to be a lot more observant.

"So are we driving it to his house?" I asked.

"We're taking it to his work," said my Dad.  "I think he owns a car
dealership."

And at that moment, springing out of the nothingness of the rural Ohio
horizon we beheld a giant glass building - the guy's last name boldly
emblazoned in giant letters on the roof of the building.  "I guess
that's it," my dad laughed.

A tall, thin man greeted us in the parking lot.  We worked out some
details, and after helping my dad carefully wheel the giant brown
speakers into the spacious car dealership, he sent us off with a
handshake.  After spending probably only a half hour at our
destination, we embarked home.

"Jet skis," I read aloud off a high way billboard.  My dad looked up,
peering at the sign through his dark blue Oakley shades.  "Let's do
it," he said, drifting lazily into the highway exit.

"Wait - are you serious?  We're going to ride jet skis?" I said in
disbelief.

"Yeah - why not?" my Dad answered smoothly.

"But we don't have swimsuits?  I'm in jeans?" I replied.

"Who cares!" laughed my dad.  "We're not going to get that wet."

We spent the rest of the afternoon somewhere between Ohio and Illinois
tooling around in some lake on a rented jet ski.  I remember the
spontaneity, the mystery of where exactly we were, and the warm, wet
wind flying through my awkward middle school hair.  And I remember not
even minding that my blue jeans got soaked.

I admire my dad for his spontaneity.  As someone who has always had a
hard time finding joy without rigid routines, his easy going,
go-with-the-flow personality was a welcoming and comforting presence
in my life, and it led us to a lot of good times.

I love you dad.  You're the best.  Thanks for stopping by this
morning, and have a wonderful Father's day.
