---
title: a second burner, spit on the window, and the biergarten
banner: 2020-06-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  How is your Saturday going?  I'm feeling
behind today.  There is a small mess in the kitchen.  There are
batches of laundry temporarily stashed in different areas of the
house.  Our fridge is nearly empty, and we are in dire need of a good,
thoughtful grocery trip - especially now that Rodney finished up the
last of the milk in the house.  Today, I'm hoping that I can finally
catch up on all the things that need to be done.

Miles and Marissa are in and out of a morning sleep upstairs.  He just
finished up his morning _womp womp_ session, which is the name we've
given to the kind of cry Miles makes when he is already at maximum volume
and intensity, and the sustained monotone cry becomes this interesting
cadent rhythm.  One night at the dinner table, we were trying to
imitate what it sounds like.

"Whaaaaa.  Whaaaaa.  Whaaaaa," I said, beating my chest.

"No dada, like this," interrupted Rodney.  "WOMP WOMP WOMP WOMP WOMP."

"That does sound more accurate," said Marissa.

Rodney and I just finished making breakfast.  I cooked a package of
bacon, and on the other large burner of my stove, I fried a pair of
eggs on the other large burner for us to share.

Now you might be thinking, _other large burner?  But Alex, your stove
is missing the second large front burner._ Ah ha - not since
yesterday, when a comically large cardboard box was delivered on our
doorstep stamped with a faded grey _Whirlpool_ insignia.  Inside the
spacious cardboard box was a single burner cap freely bouncing between
a gratuitous wad of plastic and wrapping paper.

I was actually kind of nervous taking the burner out for the first
time.  This was now the fifth burner cap we've ordered from whirlpool,
and our track record gave me no reason to think that somehow we had
found a needle in the haystack of their parts registry and gotten it
right _this_ time.  _Click click click poof_.

Now look at me.  Using two large front burners simultaneously, like
some kind of double burner using hot shot.  I'm honestly happier now
than I was this past Christmas morning.

"Is that the box it came in?" asked Marissa.

"Yeah, and the burner cap was just in the plastic bag bouncing around
in there," I laughed.

"Whirlpool is stupid," said Marissa before disappearing upstairs.

_Sip_.  We had a good day yesterday.  While Marissa was at her first
post-covid agility practice with Ziggy, Rodney, Miles, Ollie, and I
hung around the house.  Rodney colored the railings and floor of the
back deck with sidewalk chalk while I straightened up the house.  In
the afternoon, I put Rodney in his room for some quiet time, which
gave me some quiet time of my own, watching some videos on YouTube
with Miles in my lap.  After Marissa returned home, I went upstairs to
get Rodney out of his quiet time, and entering his room, I was greeted
by a strange, unpleasant smell.

"Hey dude," I said.  "It smells kind of weird in here - what are you
up to?"

Rodney sat up in bed, meeting my eyes.  He had smears of red and blue
around his mouth.

"What do you got on your mouth?" I said, even more confused.

"I was cleaning!" Rodney yelled.

"Cleaning?" I asked.  "What were you cleaning?"

"The window!" said Rodney.  "I cleaned it!"  Rodney pointed to his
bedroom window.  The day before, he had covered his bedroom window
with red crayon, but now all that remained was a big continuous murky
smear.

"Oh no," I muttered.  "Rodney, what... did you use to clean the
window?" I asked.  Rodney simply made a slurping noise, his bright red
colored tongue peeking out of his mouth.  I shuddered.

"Well I gotta hand it to you, dude," I laughed.  "This is the most
grossed out I've ever been in your room, and it didn't even involve
any poop."

"OH! I pooped too!" said Rodney, pointing at his butt.

After I had finished cleaning up all the spit off of Rodney's window,
we packed up the stroller and embarked on our first summer walk to the
biergarten.  The sun was starting to go down, and the air was getting
cooler.  It made for a wonderful, bug-free walk.

The biergarten was busy, but we felt prepared.  We brought a large
blanket, and after setting it down in a shady spot of grass, Marissa
broke out some snacks to hold us over while we waited for our pizza
delivery.  The sun going down on the Madison biergarten is quite a
site to behold.

"This is heaven," said Marissa with a big smile, Miles dozing off in
her lap.

I got up to get us each a beer, and as I was making my way back to our
blanket, I could see Rodney standing up, fidgeting with his pants.
And while Marissa was distracted with Miles, in a swift motion, Rodney
dropped his pants and pull-ups to his ankles.

"NO NO NO NO NO," I yelled, spilling beer on my hands while I rushed
over to stop Rodney from peeing.  Marissa helped Rodney put his pants
back on.

"But I have to go potty," protested Rodney.

"You can't go right here, dude," I explained.  "You can only pee in
toilets - and that one spot in our backyard.  Here, I'll take you over
to the bathroom."

The little exception we made in the parking lot of the Sparta Culver's
must have given him the wrong idea.  It's funny how quickly kids can
form bad habits.  At least the picnic table beside us got a good laugh
out of his act of minor public exposure.

We enjoyed a pizza at the biergarten, and Miles dozed off in my lap
while Marissa and Rodney fed the ducks by the lake.  After making our
way back home, I put Rodney to bed.  And I was so tired from the long
walk, that I dozed off while putting Rodney to bed.

"I think I fell asleep while reading Rodney a story," I laughed,
coming down the stairs.

"What?" said Marissa.  "How long?"

"Must have been about ten minutes," I said, looking at my phone.
"That's a long walk, it's probably going to take some time to get used
to that again."

"He probably loved it," said Marissa, smiling.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Saturday.
