---
title: training, analyzing food, and paying credit card bills
banner: 2020-11-19.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to Thursday.  For me, this is the
point of the week where the mental gas tank starts to run low, and
feeling alert is a struggle.  I'm sure I didn't help things by staying
up an extra half-hour last night hacking on a side project.  My tired
Thursday morning self wants to rebuke the careless, frivolous sleep
habits of my wayward Wednesday night self.  _You sacrificed a half
hour of precious sleep so you could dick around with a Makefile?  Was
it worth it, Alex?_.  In a way, it was.  Even at the expense of
physical comfort, I'm sure it was nourishing me on a deeply
subconscious plane.

_Sip_.  How's the relationship between evening-you and morning-you?
Do you two work well together?  Do you look out for each other?  And
how was your Wednesday?

I had a full day yesterday between moving the chains on my security
work for this week, as well as training the interns on a tool I helped
write four years ago.  My enthusiastic, thoroughly memorized tutorial
echoed through the halls of our house yesterday.  After the session, I
found my way to the dining room to do some prep for dinner.

"Sounded like a lot of fun up there," said Marissa.

"Oh it was fun," I laughed.  "I've given that training so many times,
I feel like a club DJ, or like I'm leading a conga line on a cruise
ship."

The funny comparison spurred me and Marissa to riff on what that would
sound like.

I gripped an imaginary microphone, pretending to be a low budget
DJ. "Aaaaalright everyone, let's get ready to write - some
CLOUDFORMATION.  All hands on deck, grab your favorite editor and open
up a new YAML file."

"Just a reminder for passengers, make sure you turn your VPN on, or
you will not be able to proceed with the tutorial," Marissa added
cheerily.

Our "moment of Zen" in the training session had to be when I was
explaining the uniqueness of stack names.  "Each stack name is unique
for the whole region," I explained.  "So I'll name mine
_cfn-training-alex_, and you two should name your stacks something
similar.  I think using your name is a good idea."

Connor and Ritik busily typed away at their computers.  I opened a
window to the AWS console and refreshed the list of CloudFormation
stacks.  Two new stacks appeared.

"Nice," I said.  "Looks like that worked.  So we now have
_cfn-training-ritik_ and..."

I squinted at my computer screen.  "And also _cfn-training-ritik-2_.
Which one of you made that?"

Connor slipped his hand up.  "That was me," he said.  We broke out
into hearty laughter.

"Well the next step is copying the stack template into a new stack," I
said.  "I was planning on naming mine _cfn-training-alex-2_, but
because you were a smart ass now you're going to have a naming problem
to solve."

After work, I found my way back down to an empty kitchen.  While
Marissa and Rodney busied themselves with their top secret Christmas
lights project, I started to prepare chicken.  Last night was an
important meal, you see.  It was _chicken redemption night_.

I may have been burned last week by a partially frozen chicken, but I
was prepared this time.  The bird had enough time in the fridge
thoroughly thaw.  Just after lunch I cut it up into quarters and left
them salted in the fridge to dry all afternoon.  I'd go on to sear the
pieces and finish them in the oven while making a pan sauce.  We
gathered around three plates of crispy chicken, garlic mashed
potatoes, and a french green bean salad.  For five minutes, no other
sound was heard at the table but chewing, swallowing, and the cracking
of chicken bones.

"So I'm realizing that I have a weird food impulse," I said.  "I can't
eat food without analyzing it."

Marissa looked up from her plate.  "What do you mean?" she asked.

I leaned back into my chair, wiping my mouth with a napkin.  "Even
though this version is a slam dunk compared to when I tried it last
week, my first thought digging into this was 'I missed a few parsley
stems, the chicken needed to rest for at least another five minutes,
and I can taste the burnt pepper that should have been applied _after_
searing it in the pan'."

Marissa set down her fork.  She looked disturbed.  "Oh gosh, Is... is
that something you want to stop doing?"

"No, not really," I said.  "I think before I understood it, it has
gotten me into trouble.  But I think it's also just how I enjoy food.
If you care about something, you want to make it as good as it
possibly can be."

"Just striving for excellence," said Marissa.

"Yeah," I nodded.  "Anyway, just bringing up the realization in case
it comes across like I'm being overly negative.  I think I'm just
wired to look for things that could be optimized, no matter how
small."

"No," said Marissa.  "I appreciate the comments, I think you're on to
something."

After putting the house away, Marissa found me in our bedroom at the
computer.  I was hacking on the same silly Makefile.  She slumped down
in the chair beside my desk, visibly frustrated.

"I need help paying this credit card," she said.  "I just don't know
what to do."

It was my main credit card, the one I got from our bank.  Recently,
BMO tried consolidating their old legacy credit card paying site with
their newer revamped online banking portal, and we had regrettably
slipped through the cracks.  The old credit card site we had
bookmarked just redirected to the new site, and the new site didn't
reflect anything about our credit card.

"Let's try online chatting," I said.  "I think I've done that with
them before."

I clicked through to the support tab of the clunky website.  The chat
feature was taking down, alluding to staffing issues related COVID-19.
I grabbed my phone and dialed.  An automated voice greeted me and
began to drone, then music started to play.

"I've tried this one a bunch of times," said Marissa.  "I wouldn't
even bother, you're going to be on hold forever."

It blows me away that a place like a bank can be so bad at collecting
their money.  Wouldn't they want to make it as frictionless as
possible?  For crying out loud, even a loan shark would have sent one
of their street toughs to break my thumbs.  It would have been easier
that way, at least then I'd be able to explain the situation to a real
person.

I hung up and tried a different number.  A different voice greeted us
with some options.

"Oh this one is new," said Marissa leaning in.  We both hovered over
the phone intensely.  Carefully navigating through the labyrinthine
voice menu options, Marissa and I felt like we were remotely disarming
a bomb.

"_BILL PAYMENT_," read the voice.  Marissa's eyes bulged out of her
head.  "OH!  You found it.  CRAP, they're going to ask for the routing
number," she said, scrambling to look it up on her phone.  I snapped
my fingers, wildly pointing at my computer screen.  "Just use my
laptop, we can log in here."

"_To agree to the terms of services and submit the payment, press 1_,"
droned the voice.  Holding my phone with both hands, I mashed the
button.  "_Payment complete_."

Marissa sighed, sinking further into her chair.  "Thank you so much,"
she said.  "That bill was due today.  I was afraid I'd have to go in
to the branch or something."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day today.
