---
title: pocky, random pants, and remote control monster trucks
banner: 2020-07-16.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Thursday.  Today's banner image
features a chocolate smeared Rodney explaining to me that Pocky is now
his favorite food.

"Dada, this is my favorite," he said with the utmost sincerity, like
he was trying to appeal to a jury.  "This is my favorite, and it's so
_special_."  We would spend the rest of that lunch arguing about
whether or not Pocky can join his quick breakfast rotation.

Mimi, who left us with the box of delectable treats, threw her hat in
the ring over a text message.  "I mean it's technically a biscuit,"
she says.  "That's breakfast, right?"

Biscuit?  I thought Pocky was a pretzel, but both Mimi and Wikipedia
proved me wrong this time.  Looking at the entry for Pocky I learned,
one, that Pocky is a stick shaped biscuit and, two, their company
_Gilco_ is not without scandal.  In the eighties, their president was
kidnapped by a group called _The Monster with 21 Faces_ so they could
extort the company for money.  And it also says in 2008, they were
caught adding melamine Pocky, which is an illegal compound used to
make foods appear to have more protein.  Reading this as an American,
I can't help but wonder why they would do that instead of just adding
cheese.

_Sip_.  Happy Thursday everyone.  I hope you're having a good week so
far.  I'm currently riding a productive high, feeling motivated to
clean up my computer files and workstation configs.  Lately, in the
tech side project department, I've been experimenting with using a
non-work personal computer again.  As you might remember, after the
quarantine hit and my job suddenly became indefinitely homebound, I
decided to retire my personal computer to the miniature home server
farm.  I was using my work laptop so often, I just decided to move
into it full time.

Well I'm fickle with technology, and I've decided that I'd like to
have a separate computer for home things again.  Except this time my
personal computer isn't in a physical place.  I'm working out of a
virtual computer running on top of the file server, which is
accessible from any computer in the house.  This morning, I'm at the
dining room linux machine drafting a journal entry in an X11 forwarded
emacs window.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/window-forwarding.png">
    <img alt="window forwarding" src="/images/window-forwarding.png"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption>
    <p>This way, my personal computer is both everywhere and nowhere.</p>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Notes, music, pictures, and code - it feels good to have everything
together in one happy place again, and the virtualization trick makes
it even more satisfying.

Just as I tidied up my personal computer, I also went through all of
Rodney's clothes yesterday.  With his fourth birthday a week behind
us, it felt like a good time to finally go through his closet and pack
the 3T clothes away with the other hand-me-downs.  Marissa and I stood
in Rodney's closet.  I had questions about how the bins were
organized, but they turned into more general questions about how
toddler clothes are sized.

"This is the 3T bin on top I started up here," she explained.

"But I checked that pair of Paw Patrol pajamas, and they were 4T," I
contested.  "That's when I decided to get you.  I'm confused."

Marissa laughed.  "That's unfortunate.  So he grew out of those
pajamas, even though they're 4T.  I put them in the 3T bin, and you
happened to check that pair."

I sighed.  "OK, so he still has a few 2T shirts.  Do these go here?" I
asked, pointing at a bin with my foot.

"No - those are 18-24 month," replied Marissa patiently.

"What?" I bawked.  "Aren't 18-24 month and 2T the same?"

"No," said Marissa.  "2T _starts_ at 24 months, but doesn't include
18-24 months."

After my toddler clothes orientation, the great culling began.  Rodney
fiddled around with clothes hangers while I separated his clothes into
piles.  An hour later, I found Marissa in the dining room, approaching
her at the table like a doctor about to deliver bad news.

"So we'll start with the good news," I said.  "His pajamas are in good
shape - most of those were 4T, so we only had to pack away one pair."

"That's good," nodded Marissa.

"We also finally got rid of Rodney's _random pants_," I smiled.

Somehow, a random pair of navy blue pants had made their way into
Rodney's tightly packed pajama bin, and since each of his pajamas come
in a themed top-bottom pair, the extra pair of pants counfounded us.
They didn't even look like children's pants.  They looked like a pair
of sweatpants taken from a lazy middle aged bachelor shrunken down to
fit on a child.

"Rest in peace, _random pants_," I remarked.  "Locked away in the
hand-me-down bin for many years to come, you will no longer make
sorting Rodney's pajamas so difficult."

"So the pajamas are good," said Marissa, getting me back on track.

"Yeah, but the rest of his wardrobe was kind of a slaughter," I
sighed.  "He has about four t-shirts, two pairs of shorts, and he has
grown out of all of his pants."

"All of them?" asked Marissa.

"All of them," I laughed.  "I guess quarantine is a great time for him
to limp by without a complete wardrobe.  He can just stick to pajamas
until we get him some new clothes."

Once I had stowed the clothes bins back in Rodney's closet, we sent
Rodney to his room for quiet time.  Marissa and I decided to enjoy an
afternoon beer on the couch.  I made my way across the living room,
taking care not to step on any toys, when a sudden whirring of an
engine grabbed my attention.  Rodney's remote control monster truck
whizzed by, crossing my path.

I stopped in my tracks, gripped by confusion.  The truck peeled in
front of me again and proceeded to spin in circles in the living
room.  Marissa came down the stairs, laughing.

"Is that you?  You scared the hell out of me," I laughed.

"No," she said.  "It's Rodney.  He's just lying in his bed with the
remote, blindly controlling his car."

Rodney's car somehow managed to follow us into the kitchen while I got
a beer, bumping into walls and table legs.  The dogs followed behind
the sentient monster truck cautiously.  Rodney could be heard cackling
from upstairs.

"Hey monster truck, how's your day going?" I asked loudly enough for
Rodney to hear in his room upstairs.

"FEELS GOOD," said Rodney, using a gruff voice.

Thanks for stopping by today.  I hope you have a great Thursday.
