---
title: switching teams, worms, and beef stew smash
banner: 2021-05-12.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Wednesday.  It's a beautiful morning
over here in Madison.  I hope wherever you are, you're enjoying the
same sunshine and moderate temperatures.  All this week, it's been
chilly at night and sunny during the day - right in the sweet spot.
Time to fling open the windows and go hog-wild with the hoodie
rotation.

How are you feeling today?  I'm feeling stellar.  It feels so good to
be back in the swing of things.  On days like this, I feel incredibly
lucky that my job only requires me to sit upstairs on the computer
with coffee.  That's what I feel like doing most of the time, anyway.
I especially feel lucky on the days like today where I don't have a
lot of camera time.

After such a crazy weekend and more summer craziness approaching, I'm
trying to go easier on myself.  I'm trying not to squeeze so much work
out of every minute.  For example, yesterday I was trying to fit in as
many chores before 11 PM as possible.  It was 10:30, and I had a
choice between sweeping the floor, wiping down the cabinets, and
rounding up loose laundry around the house.  I couldn't decide what to
get done.  I stood in the kitchen deliberating on what to work on for
five minutes.  I couldn't decide what to do, so I just called it
quits a little early.  I joined Marissa in the basement studio and
caught the ending of the episode of Bob's Burgers she was watching.

_Sip_.  I have some other big news.  I'm transferring to a different
team at work.  This has been in the works for a few months now, all
starting with this inescapable feeling of restlessness and the need
for a change.  I was ashamed of these feelings at first.  I assumed
the issue was my fault, that I wasn't focused enough or not investing
enough in what the team is building, so I reached out to some more
senior engineers at the company.  I learned that after almost five
years working in the same engineering space, these restless feelings
are normal and even a good thing.  The more I thought about it, the
more transferring to a different team started to feel like the right
decision.

I'm certainly no stranger to switching teams.  In fact in the last
four years and seven months working for Zendesk, I've worked on five
different teams.  But this is the first time I've actually requested
the change, and that makes it a big deal for me.

So officially as of yesterday, starting in July I'll be on the network
team.  The network team is a special group of people.  Interviewing
with them over the past few weeks has been a fun way to get to know
each of my new teammates, as well as catch some of the enthusiasm
around their vision.

So enough work talk.  Let's pivot to talking about _worms_.  Oh,
that's right.  As the proud owner of a _Zophobas morio_ nursery, you
better believe that there's going to be a serious up-tick in the worm
content around here.

"I think the shock has worn off," said Marissa.  I crossed the room to
join her by the bookshelf.  We both stared blankly into terrarium.
"Opening the box was creepy," she continued.  "I didn't like the
scratchy noise they made when they were crawling on the paper.  But
now I find them interesting."

"I like how they only have six legs on the front of their body," I
commented.  Marissa widened her eyes on disbelief.

"What?" she said.  "No way."

"Yeah, just six legs in front," I repeated.  On cue, one of the worms
emerged from the dry oat floor, angling his body up against the glass.
His six legs stabbed at the terrarium wall.

"They look a lot fatter," I commented.  "They've been eating those
little carrot pieces like crazy.  I rotated them around today and the
bottoms were completely chewed out."

"So what happens to these guys next?" asked Marissa.  "When do they
turn into beetles."

"That's up to me," I said.  "I take a few of the fat ones and move
them to plastic cups and keep them in a dark place.  They form a
little pupa, which turns into a beetle.  Then I move them to this
other tank."

"I bet they don't like the car," laughed Marissa.  She pointed at the
corner of the terrarium where I added a small toy car.  It was a $2
Matchbox rendition of the Interceptor from _Max Max_.  It had sunk
below the substrate completely.

"Well too bad - It's part of the _theme_, and I like it," I laughed.

In other news, Minnie is back in ear tape jail.  We noticed a few days
ago that one of her ears was sagging.  Yesterday, we took her to the
couch to get it over with.

"Now Minnie," said Marissa.  "Daddy is holding your head down because
_he wants this_."

"But remember, it was _Momma's_ decision," I added.  "Daddy thinks
your ears are perfect already."

"But _daddy_ bought the masking tape," said Marissa.  "This wouldn't
be happening if daddy didn't buy a role of masking tape."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-12-ears.jpg">
    <img alt="ears" src="/images/2021-05-12-ears.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Minnie enjoys her final minutes of ear freedom.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Whoever's fault it was, Minnie wasn't happy about it.  We made a
calendar event exactly one week from yesterday for ear tape day, which
I guess is a soft commitment to throw her a party or something.

After wrapping up work, I hit the kitchen.  It felt great to be
cooking again.  With a fresh batch of chicken stock to burn through, I
went with our standby classic _boef bourguignon_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-12-meal.jpg">
    <img alt="meal" src="/images/2021-05-12-meal.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Miles is finally at the age where he can share what we're eating for
dinner.  Always an enthusiastic eater, he's adjusting very naturally
to new fancy foods.  We gave him his own plate of _boef bourguignon_,
smashed up with a fork and smeared onto the tray of his high chair.
chaos followed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-12-chaos.jpg">
    <img alt="chaos" src="/images/2021-05-12-chaos.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"I can't even look at that right now," said Marissa.

You've heard of a _cake smash_, but how about a beef stew smash?  Now
we're talking.  Thanks for stopping by today - have a great day
everyone.
