---
title: kindergarten, feng shui, and power naps
banner: 2021-03-03.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  Half way done with this
work week.  Let's just keep applying pressure, and in no time we'll be
in the good place.  The good place where you can wake up whenever you
want and you only need to use your computer if you feel like it.  And
until then, we have lots of lesser pleasures to tide us over.  Hot
coffee.  Bright sunshine.  A semi-clean living room.

It's too difficult to keep Rodney's toys clean every day.  He's at
that age where he can clean up after himself and his heart is in the
right place, but he's just bad at it.  I tried pitching in last night
while tidying up the house.  I threw all his magnatiles into the bin.
I collected the Yahtzee score sheets that were thrown around the room.
I gave up at 11 o'clock, leaving his colorfull "meatballs" still
scattered around the room with various k'nex pieces.

We try not to be too hard on Rodney these days.  He seems older, and
for Marissa and I, the way he carries himself is just a daily reminder
of how tough the isolation has been on him.  I feel like we oscillate
between scolding him for things he should be doing and feeling
sympathy for how hard he's trying.  Marissa told me that last night
while he was brushing his teeth, she came into the bathroom to find
our rug splattered with sparkly blue toothpaste.

"Rodney," she scolded.  "What's this?  You need to keep the toothpaste
in the sink."

Rodney's voice cracked as he diplomatically explained that he "made
too big of a toothpaste snake" and he even tried to clean it up with
toilet paper.

_Sip_.  Marissa reminded me that he'll be going off to full-day
kindergarten soon.  I read that Madison is re-opening schools this
spring.  It all feels like it's happening so fast.  I wish we could
have had some pre-school just to help us ease into a household without
Rodney.

I'd blame the pandemic for that, but we had a hard time getting him
into preschool even before coronavirus was a thing.  I was baffled and
frustrated with how difficult it was to get him into the nearby
preschool.  We wrote them emails.  We called their office.  We even
singled out some of the staff for pleasant small talk at one of
Marissa's art shows.  What comes next, bribery?  Blackmail?  Collusion
with Russia?

Pre-school would have been nice, but I decided that the whole thing is
just stupid.  Harsh, because admittedly I was turned off by how
competitive it was just to get him in.

"Kindergarten is different," Marissa assured me.  "When you sign up,
you give your top choices and the county signs you up for your top
available choice, but they legally have to accept everybody."

Now we're talking.

_Sip_.  So how's your week going?  I'm actually looking forward to
work today.  Thanks to Marissa, coziness has been restored to my
upstairs office.

I upgraded to a bigger monitor about a week ago, and since then my
workstation has been in shambles.  The _feng shui_ was upset.  The
coziness had left.  My new giant monitor eclipsed the cute little desk
lamp and practically created a wall between mine and Marissa's seats.
Most definitely not _gezellig_.

Then, like an allen wrench wielding angel, Marissa descending on the
chaos.  She purified the area with the flame of her superior spatial
reasoning.  She mounted the monitor back on the wall and found a
better place for the laptop stand.  The last piece of the puzzle was
my long black microphone stand.

"This thing is stupid," she griped.  Fighting hinges, screws, and
springs, she struggled to find a reasonable orientation.

"I know," I laughed.  "For how big it is, you'd think it would be
easier to work with.

We each exchanged short-lived _eureka_ moments.

"What if I just mount it to my chair?" I blurted out.

"You can't do that," said Marissa.  "It's plugged in, silly."

More staring and thinking.

"Why can't you just wear a smaller mic clipped to your shirt?" she
said.  "Like they do on TV?"

"That's so embarrassing," I laughed.  "I'd feel like a televangelist.
And plus, the microphone has kind of become a security blanket for me.
I like that I can make eye contact with people, but still have
something in front of me to focus on."

"That's fair," she said.  Marissa held the mic stand in the middle
between the two monitors.  I sat in my chair and visualized it.

"Perfect!" I said.  "I can still slouch in the boring meetings, I can
lean forward, and just stick it straight up in the air when I don't
need it."

"It kind of looks like a person now," laughed Marissa.  "HELLO ALEX.
ARE YOU READY TO WORK NOW?  BEEP BOOP.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-03-desk.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 03 desk" src="/images/2021-03-03-desk.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

I got a lot of work done yesterday.  Juggling multiple priorities has
become the status quo, but on very special days I can make multiple
people happy at once.  Yesterday an absolutely magical series of
events unfolded that led to me making three different groups of people
happy with a single code change.  In one fell swoop, I fixed a
connectivity problem someone was happening in our support channel, I
unblocked a new environment build-out, and I refactored a little mess
of spaghetti code that had been problematic for our team.  To
celebrate, I got out of my chair and flopped backwards onto the bed.

Marissa and Rodney joined me.  Rodney brought me some little figurines
he made out of k'nex.  As instructed by Rodney, I tiredly held them in
the air over my head while Rodney took pictures.  He made a person and
a puppy.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-03-knex.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 03 knex" src="/images/2021-03-03-knex.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Marissa and I were so comfortable that we fell asleep on the spot.  I
emerged from the short power nap first to make lunch, and Marissa
would come down the stairs a little after.

"Wow," she said rubbing her eyes.  "I think that was the first time in
a while that I've fallen asleep without meaning to.  It's like my body
just shut down."

Those are the best kind of power naps.  Thanks for stopping by
everyone.  Have a great day today.
