---
title: the wrong grapes, the cat story, and the happy dance
banner: 2021-07-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Saturday, everyone.  It's good to be here now, isn't it?  This
is the good part of Saturday.  To be fair, all of Saturday is
essentially _good_, but it gets even better when the kids are in bed.
I hope that you got your fill of work, rest, hobby time, and time
without kids bothering you.

_Sip_.  It's been an action packed weekend here on the homestead.
Marissa picked up her new fish tank from the fish store.  Half
constructed in the living room, it already looks like a spaceship from
the future compared to her old set-up.  The new tank doesn't even have
water in it yet.  Marissa still needs to make up her mind on how she
wants to set up the rocks, and readers let me tell you that you
haven't seen anyone anguish over imperceptible details the way Marissa
arranges rocks in an aquarium.  I certainly appreciate the attention
to detail, and I hope her fish do too.  We've joked that both Ibb and
Obb have tried to put in a formal request to be transferred back to
the ocean.  I guess that paper work must have gotten lost in the mail,
but hopefully they enjoy their new place just as much.

In other news, I think I'll take a few paragraphs to embarrass my five
year old son.  Rodney accompanied me to the grocery store to pick up
dinner.  Moments after I had him buckled into his car seat, he floated
an unexpected question.

"Can we buy grapes?" he asked.  I stopped before closing the car door
and stared at him.

"Grapes?" I questioned.

"I _super_ want them this time," he said.

"I don't know, dude," I waffled.  "They're not good for the dogs,
and..."

"We can put Ollie and Zig Zig in their crate while I eat them in a
bowl, and Minnie _can't_ jump on the table because she's too small,"
he said.

Rodney had put so much thought into this, and that impressed me.
"We'll get some grapes, dude," I nodded.  "If you like a food that's
good for you, you should be able to have it."

Later in the produce aisle, I fished a bag of grapes from the center
of the pile and placed it in the shopping cart.  Rodney stared into
the plastic bag like it was a treasure chest.  I broke off a small
vine of grapes for him to enjoy while we shopped.  The decadence!  The
luxury!  You haven't lived until you've eaten grapes while being
pushed around in a shopping cart.  He continued to indulge on the
forbidden fruit, standing up in his seat to reach for more.

Cut to later that evening where Rodney was poking at the rest of his
dinner.  "I _really_ have to go poop," he said breaking the dinner
table silence.

"You're almost done," I interrupted.  I also suspected he was using
the old _I have to go poop for the remaining 20 of time between dinner
and bedtime_ trick.  "Just finish your dinner, then you can go."

Rodney grimaced.  He squirmed in his seat.  "Dada I _really have to
go_," he repeated more seriously.  Rodney flew up the stairs.  We
heard his feet thumping through the hallway and the slow creaking of
the bathroom door.

I think I can forgo the details if we focus on the main idea that
Rodney ate too many grapes at Hy-Vee, and in the car, and back at
home.  But on the plus side, he got to add a new, colorful term to his
vocabulary.  _The Hershey Squirts_.  It made Rodney laugh the first
time he heard it.  As his final thoughts on the ordeal, he muttered "I
think we got the wrong grapes" to himself as he climbed into bed.

Oh and I definitely have to tell you the cat story.  Marissa and I
were cleaning up after some company last night when she saw a dark
figure crawling through the backyard.  We filtered out onto the deck
to check it out.

"Oh it's a cat," she said relieved.  "Oh crap I think it has a
collar."  Marissa trotted into the driveway in her bare feet whistling
the cat over.  The dark grey cat, wearing a little silver bell around
its neck, cautiously tiptoed over to Marissa.  Marissa swiftly bent
down to scoop the cat off the ground.  The cat panicked and
back-flipped back down to the ground.  Marissa scooped it up again,
holding more tightly.  The cat dug its claws into the side of her
shirt and tugged at her skin.

"Well what the hell do we do now?" she asked.  Marissa searched
nextdoor.  I searched Facebook.  The cat just continued to _meow_
loudly and dig into Marissa's skin.

We put the cat in one of the dog's crates on the deck and covered it
in a blanket.  We poured some dog food and water into bowls.  The cat
flipped the bowls over.  The cat scream-meowed in the crate on our deck
for an hour.  Marissa's Facebook post got a few bites, but none of
them were as helpful as we hoped.

> Why is it in a cage?

I thought that was obvious, because otherwise our post would say, "Saw
a greyish cat, it's in the street now - good luck!"

> That's Moxie.  She has a large hunting radius.

"So do our dogs, and it's their backyard" laughed Marissa.

> Just let her walk home.

Out of frustration, we opened the door to Moxie's borrowed crate.
Moxie squirled down the stairs, and in a single bound flung herself
over our three foot fence gate like a creature from Avatar.  She was
gone - good luck out there Moxie.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-10-moxie.jpg">
    <img alt="moxie" src="/images/2021-07-10-moxie.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>It was nice having you, Moxie.  Now I would like to
  unsubscribe from your hunting radius.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

We're not cat people.  We're dog people, fish people, worm people, and
most recently spider people.  Today was a big night in the Recker
family animal kingdom.  I set out the cages on my desk and began to
search for small, juicy worms.  Marissa stood behind me to observe.
Rodney, butt naked on his way to the bath, also stopped in to observe.
I fished out a small, weak superworm I found in the bottom corner of
the bin.  I placed it at Spidey's feet, letting the wriggling tail
brush his leg.  Spidey circled on his legs.  He towered over the
little twitching worm.  He sank his teeth into the soft belly and
hoisted it up with his pedipalps.  The strike was so unsuspected that
I didn't get it on video, but I did get a video of his "happy dance".

Tarantulas like spidey wiggle their butt and swivel in circles after a
kill.  Some scientists think they are creating a "food mat" to
preserve their food, and others think they do it to keep prey from
dripping in their living space.  But some people actually think they
do it just because they are feeling happy with themselves - the "happy
dance".

I'll let you be the judge - what do you think?

<video width="400" controls="">
<source src="/vids/2021-07-10-happy-dance.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
Bummer - it looks like your browser doesn't support embedded video.
</video>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great weekend everyone.
