---
title: meetings, grandma jane's broken legs, and apple sauce
banner: 2021-03-18.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  Happy Thursday.  It's a beautiful day
outside.  If you're near a window, take a break from reading this
paragraph and take a minute to admire the sun, the sky, and the
scenery.  It's excellent, isn't it?  The rain stopped.  It's not so
cold anymore.  I think all it took to pull me out of my slump was just
a little bit of nice weather.  Heading upstairs to get ready, suddenly
four or five writing ideas leapt into my head, and I knew that today
was going to be a lot better.  Perhaps my slump wasn't an existential
crisis.  Maybe there was nothing angsty, brooding, or formative
happening between my _id_ and _ego_.  I think it was just some
uninteresting, off-the-shelf seasonal depression caused by a classic
midwestern season change fakeout.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  Did you have a good Saint
Patrick's day?  I've been known to enjoy a Guinness from time to time,
but the truth is there isn't enough Irish culture in this house to
fill a shot glass.  We ate paella with apple sauce for dinner.  I
drank an Amstel and Marissa made herself a gin and tonic.  The closest
any of us got to actually celebrating St. Patrick's day was Rodney,
who enjoyed a bowl of lucky charms at the breakfast table.

I had a pretty decent work day too.  Earlier this week, a short
meeting over Wednesday lunch appeared on my calendar.  The subject
read something about an internship, so I assumed I was conducting
another technical screen for a candidate.  But before I had a chance
to get my short quiz together, the recruiter added more context.  It
turns out Carrie had already been hired.  She would start later this
summer, and the point of this meeting was just a chance to get to know
each other.

I joined the call.  "So... you were already hired, right?" I asked
hesitantly.

Carrie nodded.  I breathed a sigh of relief, then regaled Carrie with
the story of how I almost showed up to our zoom lunch expecting to
grill her about writing code and designing software.

"Oh, could you imagine?" she laughed.  "They told me this was just an
informal chat.  If you asked me to write code, I would have gone along
with it - but I would have thought it was weird."

I took a short break for lunch, and later I found myself back in my
office working on a document.  Rodney, imprisoned in his room for
daily quiet time, shouted across the hall.  Our official policy is
that quiet time implies being _quiet_, but I was too curious as to how
Rodney was entertaining himself.  So I entertained the distraction.

"DADA," he whispered from across the hall.  "I HAVE A PRIZE FOR YOU."

I leaned back in my chair so I could see across the hall.  Rodney
squatted near the imaginary line at his doorway.  He held out his
plastic drum, which was now meticulously colored with a dried out
marker.

"I HAVE A PRIZE FOR YOU," he repeated.  I stepped out into the
hallway.  There were some toys stuffed in the drum, but it was covered
with a rubber puppy pad and a decorative k'nex flower.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-18-prize-1.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 18 prize 1" src="/images/2021-03-18-prize-1.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

As instructed, I removed the decorative center piece and rubber lid,
revealing my prize.  It was one of Rodney's classic wiry k'nex
animals, stuffed and contorted to fit inside of his drum.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-18-prize-2.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 18 prize 2" src="/images/2021-03-18-prize-2.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

As he retrieved the crumpled beast from his dark hiding place.  During
the procedure, its legs snapped off.

"OPE," said Rodney.  He, the master builder, was swift to apply last
minute fixes.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-18-prize-3.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 18 prize 3" src="/images/2021-03-18-prize-3.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"Let me see if I can guess what it is," I said.  Rodney beamed as I
set up the creature on the rug and studied it.  "I see legs.  A head.
Oh, and these must be teeth."

"It's a T-REX," said Rodney out of turn.

"What are we going to call it?" I asked.

"Just... just T-REX," said Rodney.

"But you already have like to other dinosaurs you named _T-REX_," I
protested.

Rodney nodded, searching within himself for a new name for the
dinosaur that stood before us.

"How about... Grandma Jane," He suggested.

"Sure dude - that's perfect," I said.  "We'll call him Grandma Jane."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-18-prize-4.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 18 prize 4" src="/images/2021-03-18-prize-4.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>If Rodney tells you a story about the time broke Grandma Jane's
legs while stuffing her in a drum, don't be alarmed.  We fixed Grandma
Jane.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

Hy-Vee's website was down yesterday, so Rodney and I had no choice but
to take a quick trip to Hy-Vee to get dinner.  We also had no choice,
but to pick up a giant container of cheese balls.  These would serve
as an excellent appetizer while we waited for paella to finish in the
oven.

"Look at you guys," I beamed while Marissa and Rodney snacked on
cheese balls.  "One of my favorite things about this family is how
even keel we are about late dinners."

"We don't care," shrugged Marissa.  "We have cheese balls."

We wouldn't eat until 8:00 PM.  Over dinner, Marissa and I held a
small debate about my first try at homemade apple sauce.

"It's good... the flavor is all there," she said thoughtfully.  "But
it's too... grainy?"

"Grainy?" I repeated.  "You mean like sand?"

"I don't know - grainy." she repeated.

"Fibrous?" I suggested.  Marissa shook her head.

I tried again.  "Pulpy?"

"YES," she said.  "Pulpy.  What kind of apples did you use again?"

"I think they were honey crisps," I shrugged.  "I really don't pay
attention to apples beyond 'red' and 'green'."

"Ah," said Marissa.  "I never liked honey crisps.  Would you be
willing to try making it with fuji's or something?"

"I'd love to," I said.  "It was easy.  I literally just diced them up,
microwaved them, and hit it with a blender stick.  Easiest thing in
the world."

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful day today.
