---
title: celeb gossip, jelly beans, and rodney's rigamaroll
banner: 2021-04-01.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Hello readers.  I have a bitter sweet announcement to make.  After six
hundred and thirty-five journal entries, I found myself at a cross
road.  I have decided to quit daily journaling while I'm ahead.
Reflecting over the past six hundred thirty-four journal entries, I've
decided that I've said everything and I need to say.  How could I go
on after reaching the nice even number of six hundred ninety-seven
thousand five hundred eight-nine words?  Don't worry - I will still
keep the site up.  My old entries will stick around for you to read
and reference, but from this point forward I'm using this website to
further my true passion - writing about Hollywood, celebrities, and
the movie industry.  It all started when I watched the Oprah interview
with Prince Charles.  I was spellbound - absolutely fixated on every
word that Oprah & Charles exchanged, and I knew that celebrity gossip
was the life for me.  I sincerely hope you continue to visit
alex-recker-dot-com, only now you can expect a first class tabloid
experience.  I'm going to dig deep, bringing you up to date coverage
on every fling, diss, and flub you didn't know you needed to know
about.  I'll keep things simple at first.  I'll just be one of those
blogs that does nothing but post links to celebrity tweets and explain
the context.  But who knows, if I work hard maybe I'll get lucky and
go viral.  All it takes is one shot.  One opportunity.  One candid
photo of a disheveled Ben Affleck collecting takeout from his front
porch.  That's the business, babayy.

_Sip_.  Happy April Fool's, readers.  Did you enjoy that very
predictable plot twist?  I hope none of you believed that yarn I was
spinning.  We both know that I'm going to update this site once a day
until it is physically, mentally, or technically impossible for me to
do so.  A thousand words a day, every day - I'm coming back with my
shield or on my shield, so to speak.

Now that we got that out of the way, how did your Wednesday go?  Mine
was a little too much fun.  At 12:10 AM, my phone alarm rang telling
us it was time to head upstairs to bed.  The opening riff of _Closing
Time_ played, and at this point the dogs don't even open their eyes to
that song anymore.  So last night, their defiance must have rubbed off
onto us since we didn't get up either.  Marissa and I still had almost
a whole drink left, and after a long watch session of _Any Given
Sunday_ (a very bizarre film), we were in need of a palate cleanser.
So we broke out the emergency supply of goldfish crackers and jelly
beans and kept the party rolling with some YouTube videos.

I've grown to appreciate jelly beans.  Marissa used to tease me
because I would eat multiple jelly beans at a time, and when you do
that you miss out on the flavors.  "Who cares?" I said dismissively.
"It's all just candy anyway."  But I've grown to see the wisdom in
that.  Jelly beans make you pace yourself, and when you give each
jelly bean its own moment to shine, you encounter some really
interesting flavors.  To me, the most intense jelly bean is the bubble
gum jelly bean.  Not only did they get the flavor right, but the
consistency is so spot on to real bubble gum that I actually feel a
little bit of panic like I'm about to swallow a gumball.  And it is a
fact that if you do swallow gum, it can stay in your intestines for up
to five thousand years (CS Lewis).

_Sip_.  Ziggy is in the doghouse today.  The other day, out of the
blue, she peed right on the floor in front of us.  Always the savvy
dog caretaker, Marissa immediately scheduled a vet appointment to have
her checked out for a UTI.  And so Marissa scheduled the appointment,
collected a pee sample in tupperware, and brought it to the doctor as
if it were some kind of gift.  The vet called back yesterday.

"Her pee is fine," said the tech.  "The doctor said that it was _as
clear as it could possibly be_."

So even Ziggy's pee is prefect.  Stop for a second to appreciate how
obnoxious that is.

The vet tech only had some behavioral advice.  "So if she keeps doing
this, bring her in."

"Oh, no I think it was a one-off thing," I replied.  I sighed deeply,
suddenly feeling like a parent dealing with an angsty daughter's
outburst in high school detention.  "She does this when she's mad.
But once she's made her point, she moves on."

If it wasn't a UTI, than it was the new baby gate that we set up
around the play corner in the living room.  She must have been
protesting the fact that she could no longer access her favorite sunny
window-facing bench anymore, and that's a fact that cost us seventy
dollars.

In other news, because wearing a Spider-Man suit everyday wasn't
interesting enough, Rodney has now developed a preference for sleeping
underneath his inflatable dinosaurs - all four of them.  He gave me
stage directions while putting him to bed last night.  As always, we
walked the thin line between making him comfortable and making him
amused.  The whole thing has officially become a _rigamaroll_.  All
eight of his stuffed animals are stuffed in the corner, but he
clutches Corgi close to his chest.  Next comes his blanket, which is
tucked around his body and into each individual.  Hauncy lays beside
him with his head facing the door, then like a garnish, I float all
three of his inflatable dinosaurs on the bed.  The elaborate pageantry
of correctly putting Rodney to bed rivals that of a child pharaoh's
sarcophagus.

Before I clicked the light off, we exchanged some quick April fool's
strategy.  We know that we want to prank momma somehow, but so far the
best idea we came up with was telling Marissa that Rodney is an alien,
or conversely Rodney telling Marissa that I'm an alien.  It doesn't
feel like the strongest setup, we'll have to scramble and workshop
that today.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful April Fool's everyone.
