---
title: 'from the homework vault: two skits'
banner: 2021-02-07.png
---

## El Ladron

I wrote this first skit for pair assignment in Spanish class, handing
it in on March 13, 2007.  We were learning vocabulary about banks and
money, so I thought it would be funny to make a skit about a bank
teller who doesn't realize he's being held up and keeps trying to open
a checking account for the gun wielding thief.  Even with such an
innocent premise, incorporating any comedy at all was a risk in my
Sophomore Spanish class.  My Spanish teacher was a proud and serious
Spaniard.  She stood at least two heads below me, but her angry glare
was all she needed to make us squirm in our seats like nervous grade
schoolers.  I hadn't seen her crack a smile all year until the last
scene in my stupid play where the bank teller draws a gun of his own
and says, "No, give _me_ all your money!"  After an excruciating five
seconds of silence, I heard a small _a ja ja ja ja_ from the back of
the classroom.  She found it funny.  I didn't push my luck after that.
I wisely hung up the Spanish class comedic relief and stuck to boring
text book examples.

---

\[Guillermo va al banco con un pistol en su mochila.  Quiere que robar
el banco.\]

**Banquero:** Hola!  En que puede servirle?

**Guillermo:** Buenas dias!  Dame su dinero, por favor.

**Banquero:** Desculpen?  Pide que pedir un prestamo?

**Guillermo:** No gracias, Senor.  Quiero su dinero, por favor.

**Banquero:** Te gusta en dinero efectivo o en un cheque?

**Guillermo:** Uh, en un cheque, por favor.

**Banquero:** Esta bien.  Neccesita abrir una cuenta corrienta.

**Guillermo:** Que?

**Banquero:** Tiene que completar este formulario.  Es tu primera
cuenta corriente?  La felicito, Amigo!

**Guillermo:** DAME EL DINERO AHORA!

**Banquero:** Aqui tiene su libreta de cheques.

**Guillermo:** \[Esgrime un pistol\] AH!

**Banquero:** \[Esgrime dos pistolas\] No senor.  Dame su dinero!

## Billy Sunday

This was for Senior year American Literature, 2009.  We had to present
on some essays written by the great baseball loving evangelist Billy
Sunday.  Instead of every person taking turns describing something
about an essay, I thought it would be funny if we did it in the form
of a skit.  The five of us pretend to be a college admissions office
reviewing applicants and we happen to stumble across some essays
written by Billy Sunday.

---

\[Four board members sitting beside each other.  They stretch and
yawn, as if exhausted\]

Alex: Another application.  Another failure.  We’re actually defying
odds at this point.

Josh: For the love of wisdom!  There must be one half-competent mind
worthy of attending my school.  I didn’t build the Academy for the
Godless and Pretentious in its entire prestige and splendor to
entertain brainless aristocrats and trust fund brats.

Kaley: What?  I didn’t see any of your kids in this stack…

Kristen: \[peeks in through door\] Are you ready to review another
applicant?

Josh: Let’s hear it.  Who is he?

Kristen: The young scholar’s name is Billy Sunday. His recommendation
calls him “the greatest evangelist since Paul.”

Sammy: Oh, fantastic!  Another Bible-thumping, intolerant,
self-righteous Christian!

Kristen: He was orphaned at a young age, but found God and eventually
grew to become one of the most influential, dynamic leaders of
Christianity in the turn of the twentieth century.  He wrote two
essays \[passes out sheets of paper\].  The first essay he titles
“Nuts for Skeptics to Crack.” \[leaves\].

Sammy: Hey!  That’s us!  We’re certainly a couple of skeptics.

Josh: Oh ho ho… so crack these nuts we shall!  \[Pompous laughter from
those two\].

Kaley: “What harm has the gospel of Jesus ever done the world…”

Sammy: “… let the atheists and materialists and agnostics or any other
kind of a ‘tic’ who doesn’t believe it produce a better book, if he
can…”

Josh: “…don’t you find fault with God and His Word and the creation of
the world, you poor idiot, when you don’t know beans about a fly.”

Alex: This is infuriating…

Josh: …ignorant…

Sammy: …inconsiderate…

Kaley: …but probably the best we’ve seen today.

Alex: I see he went with the age-old theme of defending Christianity.
Apologetics, and what not.  At least his tone is down-to-earth and
informative.  Lots of charisma.

Kaley: It’s almost admirable – that he’d show so much enthusiasm in
defending something so stupid as Christianity.

Alex: Too many common examples – houseflies and baseball.  Why is he
talking so much about foolish things that have nothing to do with
science?  Science is supposed to be intimidating, confusing, and
vague.  He’s to simple and literal.

Sammy: I was particularly offended when he claimed mankind could never
write anything as beautiful as the “Bible.”  I’ve read ample books
that surpass it even on an elementary level.

Kaley: Have you even read the Bible?

Sammy: I’ve… heard of it…

Kaley: Ouch.  Too lazy to read it, are you?  I believe Mr. Sunday
provides an admonishment against this.  Not many people actually sit
down to read it.

Sammy: Look at you, so high and mighty – the esteemed professor of
“humanities.”  I’d like to know exactly what “humanities” actually
describes.  Do you do anything?

Kaley: \[Chuckles\] No.  And they still pay me much more than a
literature professor.

Alex: That was low.

Josh: Enough.  I don’t think Mr. Sunday accomplished much in this
essay.  He’s much too obsessed with this book, the Bible.  Let’s read
his “This Wonderful Temple.”

Sammy: “I entered into this wonderful temple called Christianity…”

Kaley: “…the Spirit of God struck the keyboard of my nature…”

Josh: “…I passed into the business office of Proverbs and the chapel
of Ecclesiastes, where the voice of the preacher was heard…”

All: “…Be merciful to me, a sinner”!?

Alex: I think I’m going to be sick.  More Bible.

Sammy: I think he is walking through the Bible with some bad-tasting
metaphors.

Kaley: You know, Headmaster, I think he’s telling us what he looks for
in a college…

Josh: Oh curses!  If this is the kind of school he wants, I will not
entertain the thought of his admission any further.  Mr. Sunday has
been rejected.

Sammy: Something tells me he wouldn’t have like it here anyway.

Kristen: \[Enters\] Are you ready to review a Mr. Charles Darwin?

Alex: This one’s going to be good.  I can feel it.
