---
title: the walking house and bonus content
banner: 2021-03-14.jpg
---

I based this high school writing assignment on a story my dad used to
tell us.  The story always began the same way; the house suddenly
sprouts legs and takes us anywhere we want to go.  And then he would
just take suggestions for the rest of the story, like Hawaii or Six
Flags.  The house would take us all over the world with giant leaping
steps, then return safely to our neighborhood just before the sun came
up.  It's a solid bedtime story.  I tried it on Rodney and of course
he wanted the house to take him to the water slide park.  He asked the
house to run and get his cousins Alice and Franky.  After narrating an
afternoon spent at Kalahari, the house asked for another suggestion.

"Nowhere else," he said.  "Just.  Water slides."

---

```
Alex Recker
CPC
Short Narrative
9/25/09
```

## The Walking House

Even after sipping a warm glass of milk, cracking open his window, and
listening to jazz through his tiny Walkman, Anthony could not sleep.
He stared upward from his sweaty sheets, watching the quick,
oscillating blades of his bleak ceiling fan.  Anthony tried rolling –
first to his right, then his left, and then with his face down in his
pillow; but he was hopelessly restless.  Anthony felt trapped.

“Get me out of here,” Anthony uttered, as the looming catacomb around
him swallowed his whisper.  It was at this moment he was startled by a
deep churn beneath the floor.  A voice bellowed ominously.

“Where would you like to go?”  Anthony’s hair bristled as he pulled
his sheets to his chin.  His stomach jumped to his throat, and his
heart rolled to his feet.

“Who said that?”  Anthony did not expect a reply.  His eyes spun
around the room.

“Anthony, where would you like to go?”  Anthony swelled with fear as
he shouted into the darkness.

“Please, whoever you are, take me someplace beautiful!  Anywhere but
here!  Take me as far from home as you can!”  Anthony gripped his
bedpost as the house quaked.  The walls swayed and the floor crumbled.
Anthony closed his eyes and cupped his ears in his tiny hands.  His
room shifted and crashed to a jarring halt.  All was still.

“What happened?”  Anthony sat up anxiously.

“Anthony, look out your window.”  Anthony turned to his windowsill.  A
thin beam of sunlight crept below the curtain.  Anthony moved the
shade.  His fear was instantly melted.  From his window, he could see
a lush, brilliant rain forest.  A hoard of birds surged from the
treetops and flittered by his room.  Leaning further out his window,
he beheld a magnificent waterfall.  The blue water cascaded over shiny
rocks only to crash thunderously on the ridge below.  Anthony was
wide-eyed.

“Where would you like to go next?”  Anthony was much more eager to
answer.  He held his breath and searched his heart.

“Take me to Mount Everest!  I want to go high!”  The house chuckled
and answered.

“Here we go!”  Anthony could see a pair of muscular legs emerge from
the bottom of the house.  The legs lifted the house above the
waterfall and the trees.  The world around him began to spin as the
legs carried the house into a rhythmic gallop.  Anthony refused to
blink as he marveled at the centrifuge of color.  The great legs
slowed to a gradual stop.  Anthony breathed in the fresh arctic breeze
as he rubbed his eyes.  His senses were overwhelmed as he looked out
into the wild, infinite sky that encircled him.  He felt so mighty as
he mocked the tiny mountain peaks scattered about his horizon.  The
bright red sun was tucked behind the rolling hills.  Anthony grew
frantic with excitement.

“I want to go higher.  I want to be bigger.  I want to go to space!”
Anthony curled his legs into his arms in anticipation as an explosion
of sound filled his room.  The house convulsed and quaked more
violently than before.  From his window, he saw nothing but an empty,
swirling black.  The house froze in silence.  Everything was still.
Anthony crawled closer to the window.

Anthony was silenced, sobered by the vast panorama before him.  Now,
nothing could be seen from his window but a magnanimous blanket of
darkness pierced by a few lonely stars.  Anthony shivered as he
crawled into bed.  He was so far from home now.  Anthony waited in
silence.  He began to sob quietly.

“Mr. House, I want to go home.”  The house stirred.

“Anthony, I am your home.  You have been home all along.”  Anthony
dabbed his tears with his blanket.

“Please, Mr. House, take me home.”  Anthony felt a strong force as the
house turned.  He soon felt the rhythmic gallop of the house’s
powerful legs.  Anthony turned in his bed, releasing a breathy sigh.
His eyelids sank into his red cheeks, sending him into a deep slumber.
His heart gently marched to the tranquil rhythm of the walking house.

## Bonus Content

OK, so I need an extra 200 words to pay the debt today.  As a result,
I'm going to have to dig something random out of my notes.  Let's spin
the wheel, shall we?

_Whizzzzz.  Tick... tick... tick._

**Rocks for Brains**

I remember going to a friends birthday party, and they hired this
clown that made balloon animals for people.  The clown handed me a
balloon sabre, and before I left he said "you can store it in the
freezer if you want it to last longer."

After the party, I relayed the information to my mom.  "The clown said
that if I store it in the freezer, it will last longer."

My mom squinted, holding the door of the freezer.  "Well that clowns
got rocks for brains," she said.

I told Marissa this story, and now dropping a "rocks for brains" in
conversation gets an easy laugh.

**Asshole Packer Guy**

It was 2019 and Marissa and I were walking around the Madison zoo
lights event (which was pretty disappointing).  I was wearing my new
Bears hat that I just brought back from Solider field, so I was
feeling cozy.  Then out of nowhere this guy just sidles up to me and
says, "Hey excuse me - excuse me, you're wearing a Bears Hat."

His tone was sort of mocking, like typical Bears Packers animosity.

I kind of winced and nodded.  "Ha ha, oh thanks for letting me know."
But the guy just stood there to relish in his own moment.  It was
actually kind of awkward, the way he just hovered there over my
shoulder with his red face and embarrassing ski jacket.  He finally
walked away back to his girlfriend, who was waiting to head to the car
like his mother.  I think if I ever see that guy there's a good chance
I'll just punch him.  And that's the story of asshole packer guy at
the zoo lights.
