---
title: my pile of shirts, reorganizing things, and bones
banner: 2021-02-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  The sun is completely
enveloped in a grey overcast sky.  There's still blotches of dense
frozen snow packed on the pavement.  I can't believe I'm saying this,
but make sure you enjoy the weather before it gets really cold next
week.  I've heard from at least four different people now that the
_really_ cold stuff is about to roll through - the real winter.  Time
to double down on blankets and soup recipes, I guess.

How you doing today?  How's this week going for you?  I think could
summarize my week for you by directing your attention to the pile of
shirts on top of the dog crates in the corner of our bedroom.  I did
laundry at the beginning of the week, and even though I managed to
sort the shirts and put the rest of my clothes away, I somehow haven't
found five minutes to hang them in my closet.  Those shirts are just
one of the many things I have 99% done this week.  It feels like I
haven't had quite enough time to finish anything.  My laundry, my
work, and my chores are all similarly 99% done.  It's like I've booted
up a laptop and I'm waiting for a Windows update to finish.

It's only Thursday.  There's still time to pull our work out of this
nearly-finished stasis.  Maybe I'm just setting myself up for a
cathartic and dopamine-filled Friday afternoon where I'll close all
these tasks out at once.  My personal paradise of sailing into a cold
weekend ahead of an empty to-do list feels imminent and gives me
resolve.

_Sip_.  My to-do list is one thing, but there's still plenty of other
things to get excited about this week.  Marissa just completed an
ambitious re-organization project.  There was this little shelf on the
landing leading down into the basement.  It was pushed up against the
wall, half-way blocking the stairs and the back door.  It stored a
hodge-podge of ziplocs, garbage bags, swiffer pads, and duct
tape. Marissa and I agreed that it was a bad system, but the trick was
finding new places to put everything.  I agreed to let her take a stab
at it.

I'm a real stickler with how things are kept in our kitchen.  There's
no battle too small for me to turn into a full blown war.  The step
ladder can't go on the other side of the fridge because Rodney isn't
strong enough to pull it out without hitting the dogs' water bowl.
That box of kosher salt can't move to a cabinet because I like that I
can reach it without the step ladder.  The ziploc bags can't go to the
drawer because they catch against the lip, and then I have to deal
with loose ziploc bags rolling around.  I know - I'm a monster.

When she was all done, she invited me into the kitchen to review her
proposal.  She didn't explain what she did, either.  She has more fun
watching me try to find the things she changed.  Of course, while
scanning the bags of flour and the arrangement of the ziploc bags, I
missed the glaringly obvious features.  For example, she removed the
silly swinging double jointed door that formerly guarded the old stair
case.

I got to hand it to her - she pulled it off.  Marissa consolidated my
garbage bags, dishwasher pods, and dish soap into a single spot under
the sink, and my ziploc bags are arranged perfectly in a readily
accessible shallow drawer.  And now the silly shelf blocking the
landing is gone.  Nothing left to do now but to finally address the
giant hole in the wall.  Marissa must have big plans because she took
a _before_ picture yesterday.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-04-the-big-hole.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 04 the big hole" src="/images/2021-02-04-the-big-hole.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>There's no drug money or moonshine in there, I already checked.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

In other news, Rodney has become quite taken with _bones_.  Several
times yesterday he invited us into a family discussion about it.

"Momma, paintings _don't_ have bones.  Clocks _don't_ have bones," he
said unprompted, like he was correcting someone.  "Animals have bones
inside of them.  But my _dieren_ (stuffed animals) don't have bones,
they just have sand.  Spiders have bones."

I decided to shake things up.

"Spiders _don't_ have bones," I interjected.

"Huh?" questioned Rodney.  "But... how they stand up?"

"It's fluid," I said.  "You know, like water."

"No," replied Rodney.  "Not _this_ time.  I think spiders have bones."

And that's about as much of a case I made in Rodney's dinner table
kangaroo court.  All I earned for my insolence was a seven minute
lecture on _bones_.  Who has bones?  Who _doesn't_ have bones?  How
many bones do things have?  How hard are bones?  In our dining room
alone, there were enough objects for him to speculate on to keep him
filibustering on the subject for hours.

Naturally, he broached the subject again as I was putting him to bed.
Rodney was poking my bones and comparing them to his.

"Dude check this out," I said.  "Feel this?"  I ran his finger along
the ridges of his chest.

"That's called your _rib cage_," I said.  "Want to see a picture?"

"Sure!" said Rodney, sitting up.  Rodney loves when I pull my phone
out after story time.  Together we looked at google image search
results, clicking on thumbnails of rib cages and skeletons.  It held
his attention.  He is genuinely fascinated by _bones_.

I got news for you, Rodney.  It's great that you're into bones, but
you don't know what you're talking about.  You ever see a spider
skeleton?  No - that's because they're invertebrates.  Their legs are
controlled by a natural hydraulics system that I'd pitch is even
_more_ fascinating than bones.  Rodney, the way you handled this whole
bones and spider legs things was just some real "chump of the week"
behavior.

That's right, I went there.  I forgot to do a chump of the week on
Monday.  I was going to just wait until next week, but on behalf of
all the other chump of the week fans, thanks for the freebie.  Rodney,
your weird fascination with bones is one thing, but you're just flat
out wrong when it comes to spiders, dude.  When you found out that
spiders don't have bones, did you keep an open mind?  No, you doubled
down and shut the door on an honest discussion.  For that, you're my
chump of the week.
