---
title: 'from the homework vault: some interviews'
banner: 2021-01-10.jpg
---

## Mr. Minnell

I don't think I ever actually had Mr. Minnell as a teacher, but I used
to find any excuse to drop by his office.  Between his role as a
student chapel advisor, our shared interest in guitar, and how his
classroom was conveniently just a few feet from my locker, there were
plenty of excuses to drop by.

Mr. Minnell was energetic and hopeful.  He had a great sense of humor,
and he was always willing to lend a listening ear.  Even to this day
he's one of the first people that come to mind when I think of the
word _sincerity_.

I interviewed Mr. Minnell for our school paper.  I don't have a date
to go along with this, but it was probably in the winter of 2007.

---

Known to many as the kind, soft-spoken philosophy teacher down the
hall, Mr. Minnell has led a fascinating life - marked with the
intervention of God in his pursuit to teach the Truth to students
every day through his words and actions.  Though this is only his
first year as a teacher at CLA, he has already established himself as
a strong force in the modern day war of philosophy.

He was born and raised in Minneapolis as the youngest of three
children.  Judging by his account, danger seemed to be the predominate
theme of his childhood.  "To make a long story short," laughs Minnell,
"I was nearly trampled by an angry herd of buffalo and sent over a
cliff during a camping trip to the Badlands."  Along with the memories
of, perhaps, traumatizing events, Mr. Minnell warmly remembers
sleeping at the local firehouse with his father, who served honorably
as a firefighter.

While attending Winnetka Elementary in New Hope, Minnesota,
Mr. Minnell even found himself a grade school nemesis.  His claims to
be the fastest sprinter in the grade were challenge by a fellow
student, Tait.  The bitter rivalry continued all through grade school
until Taint’s false bravado was finally squelched by Mr. Minnell’s
impressive fifth grade mile time.  "He was a good sport about it,
though," remarks Mr. Minnell in reminiscence of the feud.

While attending Maple Grove High School, Mr. Minnell set his sights on
aviation and participated in a series of piloting courses.  In fact,
Mr. Minnell was the first to confirm a popular school myth that
concerned the new building’s design.  "The building was designed to
resemble a maple leaf, and I was the first to see that while flying a
Sesna over the school," recounts Mr. Minnell.

It was in his transition into college that he found the Lord.  Though
he had grown up in a Christian home and had frequently inquired his
parents about what it meant to be saved, it was not until a mission’s
trip to New York that Mr. Minnell took the critical step of faith.
"It was then that I realized the necessity for a relationship with
Christ and understood the Christian life.  Though I already knew much
about a relationship with Christ, it was then that I actually
internalized it," says Mr. Minnell.

While attending Trinity International University, he uncovered a deep
desire to study God’s Word.  Under the inspiration of a beloved Bible
professor, Mr. Minnell attended seminary and earned his Masters degree
in Bible.  "The more I learned about the Bible, the more I wanted to
know," states Mr. Minnell.

Near the conclusion of his college education, Mr. Minnell’s life was
altered yet again when he first met Miss Rintimaki, a fellow
classmate.  "We dated while I was in seminary, then I proposed to her
on a beach in Evanston.  It was really cool."  The two recently
married this past year, and now both work as teachers.

Mr. Minnell to this day still lives out his passion in appreciation to
those who impacted his life and first lit the fire of his ambition.
Mr. Minnell intently lives out the words of his life verse, Galatians
2:20.  It is his goal to truly live for Christ in everything,
especially the realm of philosophy.  According to him, we must
fervently study God’s word, applying it to every aspect of life.  Said
best by Mr. Minnell himself, "We all need a working understanding of
how God interacts with the world.  That is what is important."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-10-minnell.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 10 minnell" src="/images/2021-01-10-minnell.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

## The Amazing David Calzada

Not only was David Calzada a beloved friend and small group leader,
but he was a real professional magician.  For a high schooler, to say
it was cool having a professional magician in your immediate social
circle was an understatement.

David lent me a book on coin magic.  In hopes of learning at least a
small subset of his skills, I practiced my own sleight of hand
obsessively.  To build up dexterity, I sat in class with a sweaty
silver dollar palmed in my hand.  On several occasions, it fell out of
my grip, making a loud and embarrassing _clang_ on the floor.

David let me come along to a local magic meeting.  On that night, the
group was proud to host the famous coin magician David Ross, the
author of the book that I was studying.  Mr. Ross explained that while
he made his notoriety in magic, he made most of his money doing
commercials for Burger King.

"Did you ever see that commercial of the hand assembling a whopper in
front of a white background?  That was me," he explained.  "Burger
King liked me not only because I was very precise, but my hands are
also very tiny and I comparatively made the Whopper look much bigger."

I chose the topic of magic for my senior year multi-genre report,
which gave me an excellent excuse to leverage my personal friend David
Calzada for a little extra pizazz in the classroom presentation.  My
English teacher was so spell bound by his antics that by the time the
presentation was over, he forgot to take notes and was forced to give
me a perfect score.

I interviewed David as well.  Here's the transcription of our phone
call which took place somewhere in the spring of 2009.

---

**Alex:** Hello David.  How are you?

**David**: I’m doing great Alex.

**Alex:** I have some questions for you.  Would you be OK with that?

**David**: Totally.

**Alex:** Fantastic.  Let’s get started, David.  About how long have
you been practicing magic, both casually and professionally?

**David**: I was about ten or eleven when I started.  I’m
twenty-three, so that’s like twelve years already.

**Alex:** What initially sparked your interest in magic?

**David**: Ah.  That would be when I was a kid.  My grandparents gave
me a magic set for Christmas, and I was pretty fascinated by it.
Things really got going, like I said, when I was eleven.  My parents
bought me a magic book and even took me to the local magic shop a few
times.  Actually, my story is pretty typical.

**Alex:** What do you mean?

**David**: Like in my case, it usually starts with a Christmas gift or
something.  Magicians refer to it as getting "bit by the magic bug."

**Alex:** And for that, you blame your grandparents?

**David**: Absolutely.  My family helped too, though.

**Alex:** So this hobby, getting "bit by the magic bug," when did
people start to take it seriously?

**David**: I started making money when I was about fifteen.  My first
actual show was at my cousin’s birthday.  The family noticed.  Up
until then, they kind of made fun of me.  I wasn’t just a dork doing
some tricks.  My parents finally saw my act and said, "Wow, that’s
pretty cool."

**Alex:** Would you say that was about the time when the hobby turned
into a profession?

**David**: Well, like all kids in Highschool, I was looking for a job.
At sixteen, I had this friend in the magic shop I always visited.  My
big break came when he invited me to perform parlor magic at
restaurants for tips.

**Alex:** Was it good money?

**David**: Ridiculous, for my age.  The only money I made was in tips,
but I was typically making anywhere from forty to fifty bucks for just
three hours of working.  One night, I raked in $167 dollars.  That was
the most I ever made.  It was crazy.

**Alex:** So with that kind of money, you started taking things
seriously.

**David**: Definitely.

**Alex:** So, is there a stage name you go by, or something?

**David**: (Laughs) No.  I thought about it.  The name thing is kind
of hokey, though.  I thought about people like Copperfield, who just
use their real name.  I decided that was a lot classier.

**Alex:** Your name sounds pretty magical in itself, anyway.

**David**: That’s a funny story, actually.  A lot of people ask me if
"David Calzada" is my real name.  Once that happened, that sealed the
deal.  I decided I was just going to use my own "magical" name.

**Alex:** So do you have a signature trick, then?  Maybe a personal
favorite?

**David**: I feel pretty comfortable with cards.  I have one that’s a
personal favorite.  I get a group of people, anywhere from five to
twenty people, and guess which card they picked in order.  A lot of
other stuff with cards, too.  I don’t really do single tricks though.
I do routines - basically, a bunch of tricks strung together.  I
definitely have my favorite routines.

**Alex:** I’m curious.  What would you say is the most difficult part
of performing?

**David**: It depends.  Sometimes it’s just the physical tricks - the
actual sleights.  For some reason, I tend to choose tricks with a high
degree of difficulty.  I use regular playing cards, and that can be
hard sometimes (when it’s not a rigged deck).  The thing is, a trick
becomes second nature when you do it so many times.  It’s almost like
just brushing your teeth or something.  I don’t even think about it
anymore.

**Alex:** Do you ever have trouble with the audience?

**David**: That’s definitely another challenge.  Sometimes it’s hard
to engage them.  That was probably the one thing that took me the
longest to learn.  I had to learn how to feel a crowd.  You always
have to be ready to adapt and joke around.  You can’t forget that
you’re performing.

**Alex:** Speaking of tough crowds, do you have any embarrassing
stories to share?

**David**: I admit it. I occasionally mess up.  The scariest thing is
when I make a coin or card disappear, then find out that I have
legitimately lost it.  That’s a little awkward.

**Alex:** Yes, but have you ever completely crashed and burned?

**David**: (Laughs) No, not really.  That’s part of being a performer.
I make mistakes, but part of my job is being able to smooth them over.
It all goes back to adapting to an audience.  You have to be very
dynamic.

**Alex:** Overall, what do you enjoy most about magic?

**David**: Oh boy, that’s a big question.  I guess a lot of it is
meeting so many people.  It’s a rewarding job, too.  I have a lot of
fun going into a ballroom with nothing but a quarter, rope, and a deck
of cards, and leaving later that night with a standing ovation.
That’s a cool feeling.

**Alex:** That sounds awesome.

**David**: Yeah.  Sometimes I have so much fun, I feel like a
shouldn’t be getting paid to do this.  Honestly, I think I enjoy it
too much sometimes.  I’m in love with it.

**Alex:** So, do you have any advice for all the aspiring magicians
out there?

**David**: I would be honored.  Most importantly, you have to just
stick with it.  You don’t have to spend a lot of money to get started,
but you have to practice a lot.  A lot.  Don’t just practice
individual tricks, either.  Glean from other magicians and develop
your own style.  Don’t be a cookie cutter.  Be yourself.

**Alex:** Well, I don’t think I could thank you enough for sharing.
This was very insightful.

**David**: It was a pleasure.  Stay classy.
