---
title: our weekend in pictures 2
banner: 2021-05-15.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

A weekend this good deserves another "weekend in pictures".

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-slime.jpg">
    <img alt="slime" src="/images/2021-05-15-slime.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Marissa took a spot at the counter beside me while I was wiping up
some crumbs into a paper towel.  "I learned something about Rodney
today," said Marissa.  Looking over her shoulder, she gestured at
Rodney, who was sitting contently at the table.  He sat completely
still, fixated on a little mound of shiny orange goop on a white
dinner plate.

"That kid will sit in front of some slime for hours," said Marissa.
"He's been fascinated with that stuff all day."

Celebrating the mask mandate being lifted, she and Rodney took a their
first in-person trip to Target in over a year.  Marissa and Rodney
have become so accustomed to wandering the aisles together, after a
whole year off they were barely rusty.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-target.jpg">
    <img alt="target" src="/images/2021-05-15-target.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"We made it rain at the dollar aisle," said Marissa.

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-lunch.jpg">
    <img alt="lunch" src="/images/2021-05-15-lunch.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Taking a break in the middle of the work day, I met Alex and Rob for
lunch at the Brass Ring.  We had the whole outdoor cafe to ourselves.
We all ordered the exact same dish - the fish fry.  We scarfed it down
and kept the beer flowing.

"Hey I hate to be this guy," I said.  "But I can I take a picture of
us?"

Alex and Rob shrugged.  "You want me to go get the waitress?" asked
Alex.

"Nah, we'll just do it selfie style," I said.

"Ah, you definitely got the reach for it," said Alex.

"It's _so nice_ seeing you guys - like for real," said Alex.  We
shared a comfortable, quiet moment, nodding and exchanging smiles.

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-city.jpg">
    <img alt="city" src="/images/2021-05-15-city.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Here, slow down," said Marissa.  She and Rodney pressed their faces
up against the car window.  I changed to the right most lane and
slowed to a crawl so we could take in the Madison skyline.  Marissa
held the button on her door and her window slid open.  She dug her
phone out of her purse.

"I'm going to try to get a picture," she said.  Holding her phone with
two hands, she held it out in front of her out the window.  She
nervously pressed the camera button on her phone and quickly placed
her phone back in her lap.

"I was nervous I was going to drop my phone for a second," she said.
"Ah, and the picture doesn't even look that good."

"It's a good thing you didn't drop it, because I wouldn't have turned
the car around," I teased.

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-photo-booth.jpg">
    <img alt="photo-booth" src="/images/2021-05-15-photo-booth.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"I want to do a photo booth," said Marissa.  Carrying Miles on her
hip, she pointed with her shoulder to a big white photo booth in the
corner of Dave and Busters.  We pushed the curtain aside and climbed
into the capsule.

"Our power card doesn't work - it only takes cash," I said.

"I actually have a dollar," Marissa replied.  She handed Miles into my
arms, and knelt down by the machine, carefully slipping a dollar bill
inside.  The machine whirred.  The screen blinked.

"Please insert $4.00." I read off the screen.  There were no buttons
on the machine, and no foreseeable way to get our dollar back.  We all
began to chuckle.  "This thing is stupid, let's just take our own
picture.  OK, everybody smile."

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-teeth-2.jpg">
    <img alt="teeth-2" src="/images/2021-05-15-teeth-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Show me her teeth," said Marissa.  She leaned across the breakfast
table to where I was cradling Minnie in my lap like a baby.
Delicately, she peeled back her lip.

"Oh, they're just a mess," laughed Marissa.  "She doesn't have any
front teeth left."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-teeth-1.jpg">
    <img alt="teeth-1" src="/images/2021-05-15-teeth-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-toy.jpg">
    <img alt="toy" src="/images/2021-05-15-toy.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We had just left the ski ball booth, and I was following Rodney deeper
into the bowels of Dave & Busters.  We passed by a giant claw game.
The glass maintenance door was propped open, and two employees were
standing around inside beside the giant mound of stuffed animals.

"Are you giving those away for free?" said Marissa, smiling at her own
joke.  Without hesitating, the heavy set employee grabbed a giant
stuffed duck off the top of the pile and flipped it to here.  "There
you go, lil' guy," he said.

Miles flashed a toothy grin.  He buried his head into the giant
stuffed duck and squealed.

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-quiet-time.jpg">
    <img alt="quiet-time" src="/images/2021-05-15-quiet-time.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Minnie just loves Rodney," I said.  "She's just hanging out in his
bedroom with him.  It's like _both_ the babies are in quiet time."

Marissa, took a step back from cleaning out the bathroom closet.  "Oh
she did that the other day," she said.  "She was in bed snuggling with
him for like an hour."

"Maybe she really is _his_ puppy," I remarked.

---

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-15-clown.jpg">
    <img alt="clown" src="/images/2021-05-15-clown.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

"Gimme that thing," said Marissa.  "I really feel like beaning that
dumb clown."  We swiped our power card and the game whirred to life.
Marissa threw each ball at the neat row of blinking clown dolls.  She
only managed to knock one of them down.  We continued to wander down a
row of carnival games in the back.

"Let's try our luck with this one, dude," I said.  It was one of those
games where you throw ping-pong balls into a glass vase.  The game
started.  Rodney threw a handful into the back.

"Watch this, dude," I said.  I put some backspin on the ball.  It took
a short bounce and rolled right into the bottle.

"I'll do it again," I sneered, trying to sound even more cocky.  The
ball took another funny bounce and it rolled right into the bottle.

"If this were at a carnival, you'd own two Goldfish right about now,"
said Marissa."
