---
title: old windows, sitting, and minecraft lazy
banner: 2021-03-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everyone.  Happy Saturday.  It's time to stash some
leftovers in the fridge, pour a drink, and sit outside under a
blanket.  The windows in our house have been painting shut for so long
that I forgot how nice it felt to have a gentle breeze roll through
the living room.  Marissa was already working on some dry wall in the
basement staircase, and with a putty knife in hand she decided to go
on a window opening spree throughout the whole house.  Some chiseling,
a small amount of precision cutting, and finally a hard upward yank -
one at a time we snapped each of the windows free.

"Do you hear that?" said Marissa.  She was sliding the window on the
track, which made the hidden weight at the end of a concealed rope
knock against the inside of the secret compartment.  "These things are
so silly," she laughed.  "They really couldn't think of any other way
to hold windows open?"

The old windows in our house give us lots of trouble.  They're
crooked.  They're heavy.  They're all rigged with this same stupid
weighted rope contraption, but most of the windows are so old that the
hidden rope snapped.

"If it were me, I'd just use a bolt to hold the windows open.  Just
leave it on the window sill and screw it in when you want to hold the
window in place."  Then again, if it were me building this house in
rural 1920's Wisconsin, I'd probably be mauled to death by a buffalo
or something.

Speaking of windows, Marissa had to call a special reclaimed goods
shop in Madison to ask about replacing the dining room window.
Remember the one that I pelted with Rodney's bouncy ball?  The window
is custom made, so no one is just going to have it on hand.  But they
could sell us the glass, and they recommended us another place in town
that could cut it to the custom dimensions.  Imagine that - just an
unassuming bouncy ball creating weeks of research and calling around
town.

_Sip_.  So how's your Saturday going?  We worked hard today.  Finally
sitting on the living room couch, my sore back and worn out legs are
doing that comfy tingly thing.  You know, when you've been on your
feet all day and the first time you flop on a couch feels like you're
peeing in a swimming pool.  Marissa and I wonder if that's just a
subtle hint that we're getting older.  In our younger life, I don't
remember sitting being this much as a highlight.

We worked outside today.  We finally pulled down the outdoor Christmas
lights.  I changed a burnt out light bulb above my porch.  The screws
of the casing were painted over, so I had to use a pliers to pull them
all off.  It was a simple task, but working outside on a ladder with a
nice breeze hitting the house, I couldn't help but linger.

Rodney played with the neighbor girl and a friend of hers that was
visiting.  They dumped some Lincoln logs and plastic horses in the
grass.  Rodney was polite, talkative, and he wore his mask the whole
time.  From the ladder, I watched the two girls get in a fight around
an oblivious Rodney.  One of them stormed off, the other girl marched
defiantly in the other direction, and Rodney just continued to putter
around with a plastic horse.  Marissa sat with Miles, watching the
whole scene unfold.  She mouthed the words _I LOVE BOYS_ to me
silently.  We know that Rodney and Miles will eventually give us
trouble, but in the meantime they're so much less complicated.

Rodney was good today.  He's been really helpful lately picking up
things around the house, so I ordered him a surprise Dinosaur lego
play set.  He sat at the table with Marissa today lovingly assembling
each menacing feature.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-13-lego.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 13 lego" src="/images/2021-03-13-lego.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Muscular green legs.  Sharp slicing talons.  Long chomping teeth.
This might be one of the fiercest additions to our dinosaur kingdom
yet.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-13-lego-dino.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 13 lego dino" src="/images/2021-03-13-lego-dino.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

He continues to be on his "building things" kick.  Last Friday we
finally tried Minecraft with him.  I sat on the couch beside Rodney
with my laptop and Marissa played around the corner on the living room
computer.  We shared her screen with the living room TV so Rodney
could keep track of both of us.  It was a blank map, so we spent a few
minutes rotely gathering sticks, stones, and coal.  Rodney loved the
building, the monsters, and the animals.  But he hated the caves, and
he spent a lot of time worrying about us when mine and Marissa's
characters separated.

"Dada, let's just go find momma.  I think we should find momma this
time." said Rodney.  "MOMMA.  WE'RE OVER HERE.  MOMMA COME FIND US."

I had my hay-day in Minecraft.  In college I spent a lot of time
diligently building trains, bridges, portals, underwater houses, and
monuments.  I think my try-hard days are over, and now I'm minecraft
lazy.  I can't even be bothered to put a roof over my head or keep my
supplies organized.  When I play Minecraft, I simply log on and start
procrastinating - fishing, killing spiders, and putting up vulgar
signs around Marissa's house.

Rodney must have enjoyed it.  In his quiet time today he built me a
Minecraft guy out of k'nex.  Holding my hand so he wouldn't lose my
attention, he explained to me that this Minecraft guy "has a green
tongue, two white nipples, and little _podies_."  Rodney stared at me
blankly, wiggling the tiny legs back and forth.  "See?  Little
_podies_," he repeated.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-13-minecraft-guy.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 13 minecraft guy" src="/images/2021-03-13-minecraft-guy.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Little podies.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

It was a good day today.  Take it easy today, reader.  Find a
comfortable chair - the kind that is so comfortable it makes you feel
like you're peeing in a swimming pool.
