---
title: titration, algebra, and upgrading a server
banner: 2021-04-02.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday.  This morning, I give you a two
part pat on the back: one for making it through the whole work week,
and another for making it through April fools.  I'm sorry if I gave
you a scare yesterday pretending that I was done writing.  If it's any
consolation, I too fell for a few pranks yesterday.  When I logged
into work, I saw a proposal from our architect team to use quantum
computing in a new solution.  "We believe that we can leverage the
quantum principles of superposition and entanglement to tackle one of
the hardest problems we have here at Zendesk."  Just for background,
quantum computing is a real thing, and Amazon is already starting to
capitalize on some of it.  So to my shame, I missed this very obvious
April fools joke.  My first impulse was outrage.

"This is ridiculous!" I wrote privately to a teammate.  "This is
clearly just an excuse to play with something new in Amazon.  The use
case for this is so flimsy and there's _barely_ any detail."

I took the bait.  I swallowed the hook.  I went full _chump_.
Sometimes I'm amazed at how gullible I can be.

_Sip_.  So how are you feeling today?  How did your week go?  And
here's a question I bet you don't get asked a lot - when was the last
time you got to _titrate_ something?  Earlier this week I got to help
Marissa with a really good fish tank test.  It was on Wednesday night.
I had just finished riding the bike, and I stopped by my laptop to
look at some code on the way back from grabbing a beer.

"Do you want to help me with something science-y?" asked Marissa.  "I
need to do a _titration_."

There was a moment of silence while I finished typing, then I turned
away from my laptop to face her.  "A titration?" I laughed.

I stared at the test kit on the table.  There were a few syringes,
some bottles of liquid, a tiny plastic clamp, and some capsules.  I
had my doubts we were dealing with a real titration.

"Are you sure this is a titration?  That's like when you get the big
long stem and you drip a liquid into something that changes colors," I
said.

"That what it says on the kit," said Marissa.  "Feel like figuring it
out?"

The instructions had us move some fish tank water into a capsule.  We
added a squirt of solution A to the sample, and the water immediately
turned bright pink.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-02-titration-1.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 02 titration 1" src="/images/2021-04-02-titration-1.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"Ah, that must be the indicator," I said.  "You know, the thing that
changes color when we add... solution B?"

The instructions had us fill a small syringe with solution B and
fasten it to the plastic clamp.  To our amazement, the clamp screwed
onto the capsule.

"Why would we need to do that?" Marissa wondered aloud.  A light bulb
went off in my had.

"That must be so you can swirl the solution in between adding drops of
B," I said proudly.  "We want to know exactly how much of B is needed
to turn your tank water, plus A, a different color."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-02-titration-2.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 02 titration 2" src="/images/2021-04-02-titration-2.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

We were both amazed at how small and efficient the test kit was.
There may not have been a long glass tube with a stopcock, a flask
with a magnetic stirrer, or a metal mounting frame, but it absolutely
was a real titration.  And the levels were in the perfect range, which
made the experiment even more fun.

To help wash this _braggadocious_ chemistry story down, I'll give you
a nice fail from last night.  Marissa was trying to decide on how to
price her Zoom art classes.  She had a going rate for individual
lessons and she settled on a price for larger 10 person classes, and
she was trying to fill in the prices in-between just for a few
reference points.  Little did I know that she was just looking for a
simple gut check, something like "yeah, that sounds fair, I think I
would pay for that."  But I mistook the question for a math problem.

"Let me get a piece of paper," I said, reaching over her at the
computer.  Marissa looked confused.  I sat in silence over some
scratch paper waiting for an epiphany, but nothing happened.  I had
only written _y-equals-m-x-plus-b_ in a few different forms, then I
drew a blank.

That was a low moment.  I was probably still high off the fumes of
helping Marissa with a real world titration the other night.  I got
greedy and I wanted another science moment.  I hold myself this
standard: if you're going to be the guy that brings paper and pencil
math into a conversation, you had better have a plan.  I felt like a
real tool.

But yesterday, aside from the algebra equivalent of being caught with
my pants down, was a pretty good day.  I had a quiet work day.  Only
one meeting, so I was able to spend all day thinking, writing, and
planning the next phase of the intern project.  Later in the
afternoon, I saw an SOS in our team's slack channel.  Dakota and Fong
were trying to upgrade a very old server in an obscure, internal
environment.  I was feeling extroverted, so I suggested a Zoom room.

"I was just going to terminate it and wait for it to come back," said
Dakota.

"Oh don't do that," I laughed.  "It won't come back.  This one is not
very fancy - we're going to have to log into it."

"We have to log into the server?" asked Dakota in disbelief.

"That's right," I nodded proudly.  "Just like how you might manage
your weird uncle's Wordpress site.  This is gonna be pretty old
school."

We had a great time stumbling through the upgrade together.  The
combination of working in a low stakes environment and watching
terminal output from Fong's computer left plenty of space for jokes
and chit chat, and that was nice after such a quiet day.  Fong
rebooted the server a final time, then she logged in to check that all
the services were running.  We breathed a collective sigh of relief.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Friday, everyone.
