---
title: ice skating, beef tacos, and a preposterous amount of toys
banner: 2021-07-27.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody, and happy Tuesday.  Why don't you come on in?
We've got everything you need for this cloudy workday morning.  Help
yourself to some fresh coffee out of the pot as well as some fresh
text served hot and ready in your web browser.

Thank goodness for coffee - I'm feeling dreadfully tired this morning,
and I'm going to cling to this coffee mug like a piece of driftwood
after a shipwreck.  About three hours ago I awoke to the sound of my
phone ringing with slack notifications from work, but luckily it
wasn't a network related emergency.  It all worked out, because after
a few seconds of waiting for my brain to boot up, I realized it was
only 5:30 in the morning and that I still had an entire hour to sleep.
That sensation never gets old.

Still, if I could freeze time and take a nap right now, I would.  And
that desire to fall back asleep gets more intense looking at these
pictures Marissa took of our girls yesterday.  This was sometime last
night.  Marissa warned me, "Go down the stairs quietly, and be ready
to see the girls the coziest they've ever been."  She had tucked Ziggy
and Minnie into opposite corners of the couch with their own blankets
and pillows.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-27-ziggy.jpg">
    <img alt="ziggy" src="/images/2021-07-27-ziggy.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-27-minnie.jpg">
    <img alt="minnie" src="/images/2021-07-27-minnie.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

The precious moment lasted for about ten minutes.  They sprang up out
of the covers and went right back to throwing each other around the
living room.  Life moves fast when you're a dog.

_Sip_.  How is the week going so far?  It's only Tuesday, and barring
any last minute disasters I think it's safe to say that I survived my
first week on-call.  My shift ends tomorrow afternoon.  We have a lot
of exciting stuff coming down the pipe.  Later this week, we're going
to have Connor over for dinner, or as Rodney likes to call him, _the
really cool guy with the long hair who is really good at rock and
roll_.  On Saturday we're heading out to Iowa to spend the night at
Kelly and Jeremy's new place.

For a work day, yesterday was pretty low-key.  As usual, after the
work day I grabbed Rodney out of his bedroom so we could get ready for
ice skating practice.  Rodney would meet at the same place and same
time as last week, but as a newly graduated member of Snowplow Sam 3.
After tying on his skates, the two of us stood at alongside the door
waiting for the rest of the kids to show up.  Rodney recognized his
teachers from last week, so we instinctively made our way over to the
familiar crew.  But a different teacher emerged from the teacher's
lounge and called his class over.  "Are you Rodney?" he asked.
"You're with me - Snowplow Sam two and three, follow me." He said
sternly.

Rodney froze in place.  He turned towards me, and muffled through his
mask he blurted out, "Dada, I don't like this guy."  Caught completely
off-guard by his frankness, the best parting advice I could give
Rodney before he got onto the ice was, "Uh... you'll get used to him.
Have fun."

After Rodney's scandalous rough-housing debacle with Eddie last week,
he brought a renewed focus to class yesterday.  "Keep my hands to
myself," he repeated like a mantra.  He was even prepared to give his
favorite ice-skating friend the cold shoulder if it came down to it.
But Eddie wasn't in class yesterday.  His mom told me that he went off
to summer camp this month, so Rodney had to kick things off without
his partner in crime anyway.

They played red light green light.  They practiced stomping and
squiggling backwards.  The teacher had each of the kids hold a plastic
ball in their hand while they skated around cones.

"Hey, what was up with those plastic balls?" I asked Rodney.

"Those were _bubbles_," said Rodney annoyed.  "We had to _pretend_
they were bubbles."

Rodney and I returned from ice skating practice and the whole house
smelled like simmering beef.  Being Marissa's turn to cook, she went
with braised beef rib tacos with homemade pico de gaillo.  "You know
Momma's getting serious when she's got three Chef John tabs open on
her computer," she laughed.

Marissa's a funny cook.  On the days where she has dinner duty, she
tends to pick very involved meals that keep her in the kitchen for
most of the afternoon.  She had three pounds of beef rolling around in
a Dutch oven in a homemade base.  She skimmed the beef fat and used it
to seer the tortillas.  She sliced fresh tomatoes from our garden and
tossed them with diced onions.  "What are you cooking for, a
Quincea√±era?" I quipped.  I tease, knowing I have no place to complain
coming home from the ice rink to a dinner that looks like this.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-27-tacos.jpg">
    <img alt="tacos" src="/images/2021-07-27-tacos.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We let the boys stay up a little later to watch the new Dude Perfect
video.  Teeth brushed and room cleaned, as promised Rodney launched
himself into bed seconds after the YouTube video finished.  He was
asleep twenty minutes later.  "Peek your head in there and look at how
our son is sleeping," said Marissa leaning into our bedroom.

Rodney sleeps with a preposterous amount of toys in bed with him, and
after some reflection I think it's clear we helped create this
ridiculous situation.  At first it was green dino and his corgi.  Then
we got him a pair of giraffes and some other dinosaurs.  By the time
we added Hauncy to the mix, Rodney learned that we wouldn't say _no_.
That's the short version of how he started sleeping with plastic
robots, rubber spiders, giant sparkly snakes, and inflatable
long-knecked dinosaurs.

And when I say "sleeps with them", I really mean _with them_.  He
pulls the pile of animals and toys into his chest and sleep with them
packed around his face.  To me standing at the door of his dark
bedroom, it looks like a sweaty claustrophobic nightmare.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-27-toys-in-bed.jpg">
    <img alt="toys-in-bed" src="/images/2021-07-27-toys-in-bed.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Tuesday, everyone.
