---
title: grandpa recker, the creative process, and mac and cheese
banner: 2021-01-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Before we get started, I'd like to relay some
news.  My grandfather passed away early this morning in hospice.  The
news is bitter sweet.  We're sad to go on without him, but relieved
that he's found comfort.  He had a long, full life.  Late dementia
mercifully kept in the dark about everything that had happened in the
past year, and Marissa and I are thankful we got to have a long visit
with him before it all started - when his health was only beginning to
decline.  Marissa fondly remembers picking a picture frame off his
coffee table and listening to Grandpa Recker name every person in the
photo.  His voice trailed off when he got to his brother.  He just
laughed and said, "And I couldn't tell ya' who that was, sorry!"

What to say about the prolific Alfred Recker?  Soldier, union
electrician, God follower, poet, eater of smoked salmon, watcher of
birds, doer of puzzles, talkative patron of Fudd Ruckers
restaurants... Perhaps he is most known for being a hilariously
incorrect guesser of Christmas presents.  I could hardly do the man
justice with just a blurb in a Thursday morning entry.  I'll tell you
what - I'll go out and find as many Fred Recker stories as I can and
get back to you.  If you'd like to help me get started, send an email
to [alex@reckerfamily.com] with "Fred Recker Stories" in the subject
line.

[alex@reckerfamily.com]: mailto:alex@reckerfamily.com

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Thursday.  Hope you have some hot
coffee at your side.  As for me, I had a hard time rolling out of bed
this morning.  I couldn't summon the strength to get up and take a
morning drive.  I succumbed to the temptation, and with my head still
on my pillow I again Grubhub'ed some Starbucks from the good 'ol
Double Tree hotel.  I watched in suspense as the app loaded the order
details.  The screen read _Amber will be arriving with your order
soon_.  I quietly breathed a sigh of relief.

I was worried for a second that I would get Dan again.  Madison is a
small city and our Uber & Grubhub pool isn't as diverse as you'd
think.  It was very possible that Grubhub could have paired me with
Dan again, and I would have no choice but to wake up my family, get
everyone in the car, and leave town without ever looking back.  For
fear of what Dan the driver might do, my family would enter witness
protection.  A year from now you would get a mysterious friend request
from a _Monty Becker_ and a Christmas card from the Becker family.

With baggy eyes that cried out for a caffeine fix, I leered through
the front door as Amber's car parked on our side of the street.  She
seemed in good spirits.  She drove a yellow smart car, and I've always
thought those looked so cozy from the outside.  I certainly wouldn't
mind spending this beautiful winter morning snuggled up in a smart car
with a hot cup of coffee.  My consumer guilt is attenuated, and the
coffee is delicious.

_Sip_.  Lord knows I needed coffee today.  We're entering the critical
period of art release week.  Marissa, who has been feverishly laboring
in the studio over several paintings at a time, explained to me that
yesterday was pretty much the last day to start any pieces if she
wanted to include them in this weekend's gallery.  She worked during
the day, in the evening just before dinner, and a little extra late
into the night.  Out of solidarity, I stayed up a little later too.
After all, the last thing a tired person needs is a bubbly,
well-rested house mate talking their ear off.  In this house, we're
pack animals and we like to all be on the same page.

In the past, I've poked fun at Marissa for the way she prepares for
these art releases.  "You commit to way too much, then stay up late to
get it done," I would chide.  Marissa just shrugs and says "It's
_classic_ me."

But it wasn't my place to chastise her for committing to so much and
sacrificing sleep.  Creative people like Marissa are wired differently
than us.  Where my life's mission is built on finding the perfect
daily routine, I think artists need highs and lows.  They need the
contrasting seasons of life to get the juices flowing.  Sometimes they
need to create some chaos to agitate their taste.  Personally, I just
stay up late because playing with code keeps me awake, and I never get
tired of code.

So I'm tired.  Marissa will be tired too.  But that's just fine, this
is a tired kind of week.

Work was great yesterday.  I worked with Branden on getting a new
vault built out, and we finally hit the sweet spot where all the
configuration was finished and we were just watching scripts run.
After work, Rodney followed me into the kitchen.

"What do we have here?  What we having?" asked Rodney, trying to be
casual.

"I'm making mac and cheese," I replied.  Rodney went straight to the
pantry and began rifling through the middle shelf, looking for a blue
Paw Patrol box.

"Where is it?" he asked.

"We're making it from scratch," I replied.  I handed him a box of dry
elbow macaroni.  "We'll get to that - first we need to make a salad."

I don't know if he's just sucking up to me, or if he's just bored, but
Rodney has been in the kitchen every night this week.  Yesterday he
helped me make thing ribbons of carrots for a spinach salad.  He
proudly brandished the peeler whenever Marissa passed by.  "I'm just
helping," he said.  "I'm good at helping."

Personally, I think he was really just hanging around for free cheese.
I left him with a block of cheddar and a block of gouda.  I turned my
back to start on the base, leaving Rodney to grate the cheese onto a
plate.  He handed me a suspiciously small mound.  Who knows how much
gouda and cheddar he snacked on while my back was turned.

We ate mac and cheese and watched a hockey game at the table.  It was
a good day.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Hope you have a wonderful Thursday.
