---
title: pajama pants, violent bible stories, and mess theory
banner: 2021-03-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Wednesday.  If the work week were like
swimming laps, Wednesday morning is a good time to come up for air.
We just have to doggy paddle for a few more days before we get to the
good part of the week.  I kind of butchered that analogy, didn't I?
How am I only coming up for air once every lap?  And if I'm just doggy
paddling, then why am I even holding my breath anyway?

This morning my laundry situation is even more dire than I had feared.
I'm down to the last pair of clean underwear and I had to resort to
just sporting my lazy Bears pajama pants for the bottom half of my
outfit.  Nobody on Zoom will be wise to this, since I'm wearing a
regular t-shirt, but hitting a busy working Wednesday while dressed
like I'm about to spend an entire Saturday playing video games will be
interesting, to say the least.  Maybe some of our work could benefit
from that kind of lazy Saturday morning confidence.  I could attend
morning stand-up munching on a big bowl of Lucky Charms while playing
some Saturday morning cartoons in the background.

It's been too long since I've devoted an entire Saturday to just
playing video games with Rodney.  You only need maybe two of those
days a year, but I really should make that happen.

_Sip_.  So good morning, everyone.  How do you feel today?  How warm
is it in your house?  Do you think it's time to turn the AC on yet?
The weather has been wonderful, but it's too damn warm in our house.
Yesterday, we finally gave in and fired off the air conditioning for
just a short burst in the late evening.  I've learned that when it
comes to temperature, I have a lot in common with the little creatures
living in Marissa's fish tank.  Just one degree deviation from the
norm is apparently enough to agitate me.  In fact, if I were a clown
fish, right now I'd be pretending to go belly up just to force the
issue.

We're all a little like salt water fish.  Some fish can tolerate a
little fluctuation in temperature, but not me.  I'm the kind of fish
that only the most experienced and dedicated tank keepers can appease.

I'm still slogging through Genesis, and already I came across a Bible
story that I don't remember.  To set the scene, Jacob just finished
his fourteen year stay with Laben.  Things got a little dicey when he
first tried to leave, but they smoothed things over, and now Jacob and
his wives and his sons are hanging out in Canaan, as instructed by
God.  That's when the leader of the neighboring Hivite tribe saw one
of his daughters, and he was so enraptured with her that he took her
by force and defiled her.

Jacob's other sons were pretty upset.  But the Hivite leader
persisted.  He went on and on about how beautiful she was and how good
it would be for them to join their tribes through marriage.  After
Jacob's sons deliberated, they came up with a compromise.  They would
hand the daughter over in marriage to the Hivites so long as all the
Hivite men honored their tradition of circumcision.

They agreed.  That night before the marriage, Jacob's sons invaded and
slaughtered all the men, which was easy to do since they were all
incapacitated from their ceremonial circumcisions.

How brutal!  Not surprising, since I think these were the same dudes
that threw their youngest brother Joseph into a pit and sold him into
slavery.

I'd like to see a Veggie Tales episode trying to tell this story.  And
not the euphamistic kind of episodes where they say things like
_island of perpetual tickling_ instead of death.  New idea - just
stick to the script and tell the grizzly story with Veggie Tales
characters.  I bet you could sell the idea to HBO.

I had a philosophy teacher in high school who had this bit he'd like
to do.  Whenever he read something grizzly or violent in the Bible,
he'd drop the book on his lap and say "Now _STUDENTS_ - can't you just
imagine the _DOUGHY EYED_ precious moments figurines depicting this
story on your dear Grandmother's night stand?"

In other news, we had a great day yesterday.  After dinner, we all
crashed on the couch to watch the Hawks game.  Before the game
started, Marissa asked "Are you ready to watch our house fall into
immediate disarray?"

She was alluding to a very recent breakthrough we've made in the
emerging discipline of Recker home mess theory.  For weeks we've
puzzled over how our house can go from being spotlessly clean to being
overrun with toys in less than a day.  Marissa pointed out that hockey
nights could be causing the issue.  Miles plays on the ground.  The
dogs wrestle and fling their toys around.  And while Rodney's parents
are glued to the TV in anticipation, he's eager to take out any and
every toy to recapture our attention.

After the game, it's essential to ask Rodney to help with clean-up.
After indiscriminately dumping things onto the floor for a whole two
hours, we want him to feel at least some of the consequences first
hand.  But sometimes the mess gets so big that it overwhelms Rodney.
He'll clean with distractions.

"Corgi can help me," he says.  Then using his stuffed Corgi's arms
like a puppet, he'll move a single lego brick all the way across the
room.  Or sometimes he'll insist on using his plastic Dinosaur grabber
or his night vision goggles.

"He just gets overwhelmed and doesn't know where to start," said
Marissa empathetically.  "I think when we ask him to help, we just
have to simplify it.  I'm going to start putting him in charge of just
moving all the toys to the play corner so we can at least keep the
living room clear."

I think "mess theory" could very much be a real thing.  It's
fascinating watching how messes form, grow, and migrate from room to
room.  In a very real way, our home is a machine, and just like all
machines it is affected by entropy.

That's what I got today - thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great
Wednesday, everyone.
