---
title: cheese balls, motherboards, and ziggy's modeling career
banner: 2021-03-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!

Oof.  There it is, I think I just exhausted all my morning enthusiasm
in a single greeting.  What a struggle this morning.

This is my own doing.  This weekend was filled with all kinds of
debauchery.  First, it was the snacking.  I decided to take a weekend
off of the calorie counting, succumbing to the ample supply of apple
sauce, beer, and homemade desserts from seeing my parents this
weekend.  And then there were the cheese balls.  Oh, the cheese balls.
Rodney and I bought a big jug of them from Hy-Vee on Friday, and they
didn't even make it to Sunday.  I threw the empty container in the
garbage just to rid the evidence.  I have zero self-control when it
comes to those things, and it made me sick thinking of all that
delicious orange dust coursing through my body.

And then there were the late nights.  We pushed the envelope with
bedtime this weekend, turning in for the night in the regretful 1-2AM
window.  Afternoon naps helped, but this morning I'm feeling the
chilling lurch back into the real world of 6:30 AM.

Marissa had better reasons for staying up late than I did.  She was
trying to finish all the pre-work for her Monday tax appointment, and
I guess I convinced myself that I could be of service staying up late
with her out of solidarity.  Before we settled in to watch a movie, I
helped her take inventory.  We tallied up every frame, wood panel, and
can of spray paint.  We even counted every little ink refill on her
shelf - it was like counting the pegs in a Lite-brite.  We both
multi-tasked during our viewing of _Scary Movie_, a film so dumb and
forgettable that it was perfectly suited doing taxes.

"How do you want me to tally these for you?" I asked.  "Do you want me
to do roman numerals?"

Marissa made a confused face.  "No, definitely not roman numerals."

"Doh," I said.  "I meant _tallies_.  Roman numerals wouldn't be very
helpful would they?"

"I was going to say," laughed Marissa.

"I don't even think I'd make it to ten," I added.

"You couldn't?" asked Marissa.  "Ten is _X_."

"OK, fine," I laughed.  "I could make it to ten.  But beyond there it
would get a little dicey.  Once's the C's, L's, and M's get involved
it's a total crap shoot."

The theme of this week is getting back on the rails.  I have two full
weeks of work before our little puppy vacation, and the way I see it
that's the perfect amount of time to fix my sleep and reign in the
snacking.

The ten day forecast from today projects lots of clouds and chilly
rain.  That sounds like the perfect weather to douse my craving for
cheese balls with homemade soup.

_Sip_.  How was your weekend?  Mine wasn't all bad sleep habits and
snacking regrets.  I got in a decent amount of hobby time too.
Recently, all the parts for my new server build arrived.  This is the
quieter, lower powered replacement for the _Frankenstein'ed_ desktop
PC I have bolted to a plastic board on the top rack.  When it was
finally time to put it together, I brought Rodney along and
commandeered the dining room table as our temporary work bench.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-22-computer-1.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 22 computer 1" src="/images/2021-03-22-computer-1.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

By far, the coolest part of a new computer build is the mother board.
The amount of detail welded into a motherboard makes is a pleasure to
study, like you're looking at a page from a _Where's Waldo?_ book.
Rodney, studying the board, noticed the four holes on the outside.

"Do you need me to screw something?" he asked, twirling a tiny
phillips head screwdriver in his fingers.

"Actually, yeah," I said, dumping a bag of small metal screws into a
tray.  "I'm going to read the manual for the board, why don't you get
a jump on screwing the motherboard in."

I pretended to read while watching Rodney out of the corner of my eye.
Trying to seat the first screw, he fumbled it and dropped it inside
the metal case.  But he persisted.  Slowly and methodically, he
tightened each screw in place.  It was neat watching him find that
extra level of focus inside him to do something so challenging.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-22-computer-2.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 22 computer 2" src="/images/2021-03-22-computer-2.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"Nice work, dude," I smiled.  "This is perfect."

Letting him bolt the board to the case was the short-lived peak of our
bonding experience.  Once that was done, it was hard to hide the
glaringly obvious fact that I was all out of jobs for him.  To hold
him over, I let him stab at the unused IO shield while I wired up the
front panel.

Unfortunately, Rodney had to go to bed just as we were getting to the
exciting part.  I would first boot the machine later that night after
he went to bed, using a long VGA cable running from the table to the
dining room computer monitor.  As always, when you're building a new
computer from scratch, seeing the boot screen for the first time is an
exciting milestone.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-03-22-computer-3.jpg">
<img alt="2021 03 22 computer 3" src="/images/2021-03-22-computer-3.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Unfortunately that's as far as I would get with the new server this
weekend.  The boot screen hung on an error code that mapped to a RAM
problem.  I missed a small detail in the specifications and
accidentally ordered RAM that wasn't compatible.  The project is
stalled, pending the arrival of new parts.

Before we go, it's time for the chump of the week.  This week's chump
award goes to Zavanci Dream, Pierre Arden, and all the other weird
Instagram accounts that comment things like _DM us, we'd like to
collab_ on Instagram pictures.  I posted a picture of Ziggy and I this
weekend, and apparently the words "daughter" and "beautiful" in the
comments were enough to attract these seedy amateur modeling accounts.
So Zavanci Dream, Pierre Arden, and all the other weird Instagram
accounts that are trying to "collab" with young girls - you're a bunch
of chumps.  Nobody wants to _collab_ with you, and we want you to go
away and stop bothering people.  Could Ziggy be a professional model
even though she's just a puppy?  Absolutely.  Even an idiot could see
that her smoky eyes and exotic features would set the modeling world
on fire, but she deserves to have a regular life too.  Plus, no boy
dog will ever be good enough for her, so what's the point?

Thanks for stopping by today.  Happy Monday, everyone.
