---
title: anti-journal 4
banner: 2021-04-10.jpg
---

## `2019-04-17 Wednesday`

Good morning, journal!

Getting a late start to writing.  I got tied up dicking around with
mpd on rasbian.  But it's all to the end of being able to listen to
music through emacs - a pursuit worthy ALL my extra time.  If you
hadn't noticed, emacs is a pretty big part of my life.  It's one of
the few pieces of software I couldn't live without.  I hope to be a
regular contributor someday.

So let's recap yesterday.  Lots of wrestling with documentation, lots
of meetings, and finished off the day with a really intense battle
with homemade red sauce and meatballs.  It turned out just fine by the
way - I just set off the smoke detector, through a spatula out of
frustration, and kept the family waiting until 7:20.  But other than
that, I think it was a success.  Pasta is a challenge.  There's a lot
of moving parts, and lots of timing to get right.  I mean first off,
there's just a ton of chopping.  Dicing an entire onion, four cloves
of garlic, two bunches of herbs, zesting a lemon, and grating cheese,
all while making sure your sauce doesn't burn and your meatballs cook
to completion is no small task.  But it worked out, the lemon zest
with the ricotta cheese and ground pork was a pleasant surprise and
offered just the right amount of misdirection to make eating a bowl of
spaghetti more fun.  I think I'm going to try again, only using store
bought sauce so I can focus on the meatballs.  They tasted good, but I
had trouble evenly browning them in a pan.  They stuck and basically
lost most of their delicious brown crust (I know it was delicious
because I just shamelessly ate it out of the bottom of the pan - this
was a science experiment after all, and where would an experiment be
without collecting all the data you can?).

Today should be a pretty low key Wednesday.  I'm working from home all
day with just a few meetings sprinkled throughout the morning.  We'll
probably walk over to glass nickel for some lunch and a beer, then
we're going to cap off the day by going to Bed Bath and Beyond for
some much needed kitchen organization stuff.  We're reorganizing the
kitchen at the moment, and to my delight Marissa and I agreed on a few
key accessories we need to keep a few hot spots organized.

Man, Frank Ocean is so good in the morning.  Lately my thing has been
listening to _Endless_ while I write these little journal entries.
Then again, _Endless_ is by no means exclusive to journal writing.
Endless is so versatile, you could listen to it while cooking,
cleaning, working, quietly thinking, doing yoga, evading the police,
etc.  Music is special when it helps you focus on what you're doing,
no matter what that is.

I've been thinking about kicking up the old blog again.  I don't know
how I would get traffic on the blog posts since I don't use Facebook
anymore, but I'm thinking about switching to an email based medium.
Just need to play around with that public mailer software and see if I
can craft it to look like a blog.  Heck, I might even just host it
right form my computer.  That would be kind of fun.  Methods aside, I
think I have more things to say.  Journaling is all well and good, but
a public blog draws out a different, equally important side of a
writer I think.  Like the way different workouts target different
parts of the body to the end of being in well-rounded, active shape.
(slaps belly) emphasis on _well-rounded_ am-I-right?

As always, the coffee is wonderful today.  But I might need another
cup.  I slammed that mug in a few minutes and I think I'm ready to re
up.  I might as well just jump in the shower, it's about time to start
the day.  Have a great Wednesday, journal.

## `2019-06-27 Thursday`

Good Morning Journal!

Yesterday's concert on the square was such a wonderful time.  We
arrived there a bit early, and lemme tell you, the extra few minutes
to settle in before the concert started made it easier to relax.  Rod
did so well, too.  He ate his dinner, but he was also a really big fan
of the chex mix that Alex and Cassie brought and practically inhaled
all of it himself.  And the gazpacho soup was as big hit as well,
there were clean bowls all around.  What was funny is that when we got
home, I ended up making quesadillas for us because Marissa and I were
still pretty hungry.  That's why I think if I were a vegetarian, I
would definitely gain weight because I'd need to do lots of snacking.

But concert on the square was wonderful.  Not going to lie, last year
I didn't really get it.  I was uncomfortable, and waiting in line for
food I've already had before made me grumpy about the whole thing.
But it's one of those things that gets better as you lean into it.  If
you make it a big part of your week, it's very rewarding.

Still throwing around ideas for what I want to cook next week, but I'm
definitely leaning toward vegetable dumplings.

Marissa surprised me yesterday by doing all of my chores.  By the time
I had put Rodney to bed, she had already cleaned the microwave, done
the dishes, and was in the middle of scrubbing the stove top.  That
was a really nice surprise.  Wednesday nights are chore-heavy for me,
and to be honest, coming back late from concert on the square was
pretty draining.  I was not looking forward to it at all.

Nothing much going on today.  I think I could use a quiet night.  I
have some shopping to do, just little things around the house that are
depleted, but I might make jumbalaya in the meantime.  This weekend
should pick up in business.  This Saturday, we're getting a sitter and
hanging out at Alex and Cassie's to watch the 'shake the lake'
fireworks.  Oh, and we're going to relearn how to play beer pong.

I'm really struggling this morning with energy.  I'm pretty tired.  I
feel like I should skate to work, but I don't know if I got it in me
today.  I just spent probably five minutes spacing out, staring at my
desktop.  Lately, I can't stop kicking around ideas for how to rework
my datacenter wall.

Alright, I'm going to refill on coffee and try to get my brain
working.  What a struggle this morning!

Let's have a Thursday!
