---
title: retro
banner: 2021-01-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Friday, I can't help but crack a smile
finally getting to type that.  Let me kick things off first with an
important announcement regarding _Joke Friday_: I'm not going to do
Joke Friday anymore.  Look, I'm going to level with you.  I don't know
too many jokes.  I've learned I don't even enjoy telling them.  My
brand of humor is a little more contextual.  I like ripping on bad
movies and teasing myself about baking fails, but story jokes are just
not my style.  If you have a joke that you'd like me to share with
fellow readers, by all means send it my way on any day of the week.
But as benevolent dictator for life of Alex Recker dot com, I hereby
declare that Joke Friday is cancelled.

_Sip_.  Joke Friday is cancelled and replaced with a new segment -
Retrospective Fridays, or _Retro Fridays_ for short.  In my industry,
a retrospective is a team ritual in which you look back on the week.
You celebrate the highs and the lows.  You dole out credit to the
heros.  You suss out things that can be improved upon.  A _retro_ is
all about closing the book.

So let's jump into it.  I'm going to follow the _KALM_ method, which
goes like this:

- **Keep:** good things we should keep doing.
- **Add:** good things we should start doing.
- **Less:** bad or harmful things we should do less of
- **More:** good things we should make more time for

## Keep

Keep expectations tempered.  A small way we've been doing this is
adding new friends to the fish tank.  Yesterday Rodney and Marissa
came back from the fish store with a bag of snails.  They were shy at
first - in fact so shy that all five of them remained clumped together
in a single mass of shyness.  Rodney, thinking they were all just once
snail, named the entire herd _snail_.

It's always exciting adding new friends to the tank, but the harsh
reality of keeping a home saltwater community dictates that we really
can't call them our own until they last for a week.  This morning the
clump has moved, so that bodes well.  But we're going to keep
tempering expectations.

I also learned this week that my work office was postponing it's
opening until this September.  It makes no difference to me since I'm
just permanently remote now, but it stung a little.  Deep down I think
I was expecting to come out of quarantine sometime this summer, and
that email from work was the first time I read _September_ anywhere.
We're coming up on almost a full year of coronavirus, and while there
are lots of reasons to be hopeful, there are pre-existing reasons to
keep expectations tempered.

Keep time management.  It was a busy week.  The vault bug had me
spinning my wheels, and I can't help but feel that if I hadn't stepped
away from it every twenty-five minutes, I would have burnt out.  Keep
controlling the clock and taking breaks.

## Add

Add cream.  We ran out of heavy cream this week.  I used the rest of
our carton in those terrible biscuits I made.  I didn't think it would
be a big deal since I'm a former black coffee drinker, but black
coffee just doesn't do it for me any more.

Add skin care.  Yesterday while changing Miles diaper I noticed some
dry skin around his legs.  It suddenly dawned on me that whether he is
in his bouncer or in his swing, he's sitting in the same uncomfortable
saddle for most of the day.  So I gave him the premium diaper change
package: powder, Vaseline, and a thorough tickling.  It was nice to
finally hear Miles laugh as loudly as he has been shrieking this week.

## Less

Less cheap bread.  We bought a pack of cheap white bread to make
Korean street toast earlier this week.  I thought it would be sort of
fun to have a _Wonderbread_ type snack around the house, but I think
sourdough has ruined us.  I tried dipping it in soup, toasting it,
using it in a sandwich, and broiling it with cheese.  No matter how I
dressed it, store bought sandwich white bread just wasn't as good as I
remembered.  Call me crazy, but _KRANG_ tasted a little extra sour
this week and I can't help but thinking it was because he felt
slighted.

This one isn't really up to me, but personally I'd like to see less
(fewer) toys in Rodney's bed.  We have the core group - corgi, green
dino, blue dino, and orange stegosaurus.  Then Rodney discovered all
the back-up green dinosaurs we had set aside in case he ever lost his
favorite toy, so now he has three total.  Then you add the baby
giraffe and the much larger mamma giraffe, who gets stuffed in the
corner with her flexible neck unnaturally twisted into a ball.  All
seven poop prize rubber dinosaurs - baby dinosaur, giant t-rex (GTR
for short), longasaurus, look-back-a-saurus, stegosaurus, spikes, and
_SKONK_ get stuffed under his pillow.  And on top of it all, Rodney
just added his new find _Sparkles_ the giant python to the group.

## More

More baking experiments.  The biscuits I made form sourdough discard
were terrible, but it was fun to rip on them.  I hope they provided
some amusement for you.

More Rodney.  Yesterday I was doing my usual silly live streaming of
Miles feeding time.  Hearing his auntie Sarah join the call, Rodney
stopped by and took over.  He sequestered my phone from me and
proceeded to give Sarah a tour of the house and a demo of all his
toys.

Marissa and I watched the video footage later.  We were howling with
laughter.  Rodney was doing all the things he usually interrupts us
with throughout the day, but seeing him doing it to someone else from
a different perspective just put a different lens on it and made me
realize how funny he is.  Rodney is a perpetual motion machine.  He's
an endless source of surreal and aimless stories.  When you pay
attention to him, he's quite fascinating.

## Conclusion

That's what I got today.  Hope you enjoyed the new segment -
personally that was kind of a nice way to wrap up the week.  If you
want, come hang out with me tomorrow morning on YouTube where I'll be
making a retro style video game on the PICO-8 emulator - otherwise
I'll see ya Saturday night.  Have a great weekend, everyone.
