---
title: miles' birthday weekend 2
banner: 2021-05-11.jpg
---
Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  How are you feeling today?  I'm pleased to
report that I managed to get ready this morning without any accidents.
All that's left to do is to write in the journal and head upstairs to
start the workday.  I think it's safe to say that I'll be enjoying a
much more normal day today.

It feels so good to be back on schedule.  Today is like my spiritual
Monday.  After a crazy weekend of family and travel, I've been really
craving a return to routine.  Waking up on time, chores, coffee, and
writing.  There's no sweeter sound than the machinery of my morning
routine clicking back into place.

_Sip_.  Happy Tuesday, everyone.  I believe when we last left off, I
was still in the process of marching through Miles' very exciting past
birthday weekend, but I don't want to miss yesterday's highlights
either.  While I was taking it easy on the living room couch, Marissa
collected a small cubicle package from the front step.  She unfurled
the corner of the box and backed away after peeking inside.

"I think your worms are here," she said.

Inside the box, the worms tumbled around a sealed mesh bag with a big
wad of paper.  If you held your ear close to the bag, you could even
hear the scraping of their feet on the paper.  It sounded like the
pattering of a hundred tiny typewriters.

I had already bleached, rinsed, and dried the terrarium.  It was
loaded with fresh oats, and I even added a decorative toy version of
the Interceptor from _Mad Max_ to spruce up the place.  I took the box
into Rodney's room so he could have a closer look before it returned
to the high bookshelf.  I handed him the pair of metal snake tongs.
"You can't touch them," I said.  "But you can pick them up with these
_gently_."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-worms-1.jpg">
    <img alt="worms-1" src="/images/2021-05-11-worms-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Rodney picked up the fattest worm that was still nibbling on a
carrot.  The other worms burrowed down into the oats.

"Hi honey," said Rodney quietly.  "My name's Rodney - I'm four.  There
you go, little guy."

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-worms-2.jpg">
    <img alt="worms-2" src="/images/2021-05-11-worms-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

They're fascinating little worms.  The carrot slices have been
popular.  They seem to feed in waves.  A few times I've walked by the
terrarium and it's looked completely empty.  When all the worms are
hiding beneath the surface, you have to stare at the oats to catch the
tiny tremors in the substrate.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-worms-3.jpg">
    <img alt="worms-3" src="/images/2021-05-11-worms-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

So that's the big worm update.  Let's shift gears and finish up this
birthday weekend, shall we?  When we last left off, Rodney and I hit
the pool, the boys had a quick Panera lunch with Poppa, and we ran the
brutal gauntlet of packing the dogs and the kids away in time to
checkout.  We had a long, quiet drive.  Zapped from the weekend, there
wasn't much talking to be heard.  Marissa shut her eyes for half the
drive, then gave me a turn to sleep.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-driving.jpg">
    <img alt="driving" src="/images/2021-05-11-driving.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We'd arrive home in the early evening - just in time to order some
food and curl up on the couch.  We unloaded everything from the car
into the dining room, slowly chipping away at it until after the kids
were in bed.  I removed my writing laptop from the sleeve in my
backpack, plugging it in at the coffee bar and giving the power button
a quick mash.  The laptop hummed, but the screen remained black.

"What do we have here?" I muttered.  It appeared that schlepping my
writing laptop around in my backpack must have knocked something lose.
The power button still worked, and the computer would even boot and
display things on the screen, but the light behind the screen was out.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-1.jpg">
    <img alt="laptop-1" src="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

My process for fixing laptops isn't very exhaustive.  I just open it
up, clean out the parts, and re-seat any cabling that looks related to
the issue.  I narrowed it down to this little clump of cables just
above the hard drive.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-2.jpg">
    <img alt="laptop-2" src="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

The thin grey cable ran all the way up the back of the laptop to the
display.  It seemed like the type of cable that would get knocked lose
in my backpack.  I blew all the dust away and fastened it in place.
It booted.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-3.jpg">
    <img alt="laptop-3" src="/images/2021-05-11-laptop-3.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

A typical Thinkpad adventure - whenever something on these things
breaks, it always feels like it's going to be catastrophic, but
Thinkpads are survivors.  If you are brave enough to peek under the
hood, they will reward you for it.

We slept in on Sunday.  I beat Marissa to the kitchen so I could throw
together a Mother's day breakfast.  On the way up to our bedroom with
her omelette, I threw a piece of paper and a pencil into Rodney's
room.  "Hey dude," I whispered sharply.  "It's mother's day.  You
gotta make a card."

Rodney rolled over from his pillow and smacked his lips.  "Um, maybe
we can draw something _tomorrow_," he suggested.

We spent the rest of the morning getting the house ready for the
Recker side - our first all-vaccinated get together.  My sister Sarah
would arrive a little early.  We ate lunch while her dog Hendo
frolicked around the yard.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-hendo.jpg">
    <img alt="hendo" src="/images/2021-05-11-hendo.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

The rest of my family trickled in.  We hugged.  The kids played.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-kids.jpg">
    <img alt="kids" src="/images/2021-05-11-kids.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Miles ate a piece of cake.  Still keeping score?  This would be his
third cake smash of the weekend.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-11-cake.jpg">
    <img alt="cake" src="/images/2021-05-11-cake.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  See you all tomorrow, and have a happy
Tuesday.
