---
title: ice skating, beef wellington, and dbt
banner: 2021-05-13.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody, and happy Thursday.  I hope you're having a
great day so far.  While getting the pictures together for today, I
came across this one.  There's no story around this image - just our
family standing around the sink after we disposed of some extra dry
ice that Hy-Vee packed with our puff pastry.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-13-dry-ice.jpg">
    <img alt="dry-ice" src="/images/2021-05-13-dry-ice.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Isn't dry ice awesome?  It makes me wonder why we bothered with things
like homemade volcanos and big jugs of oil, water, and food coloring.
Dumping some dry ice in our sink was a hundred times easier and a
hundred times cooler.  Some of the crystals even got stuck in our
drain, and throughout the day when I'd visit the sink to run some
water, a surprise smoke cloud would form around the kitchen.

But enough about dry ice!  We've got a journal entry to write.

_Sip_.  How did yesterday go for you?  Yesterday was Wednesday,
meaning it was mine and Rodney's second ice skating lesson.  But just
in case you forgot, Rodney carried his skates around with him all day.
The little red cardboard box was within his arm's reach, even while
watching TV on the couch.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-13-skates.jpg">
    <img alt="skates" src="/images/2021-05-13-skates.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I felt responsible to temper his expectations a little better this
time.  I explained that even though he got new hockey skates, they
wouldn't magically make him skate.  He still had to learn and
practice.  "We're going to get a little bit better each time," I said.

"Yeah," repeated Rodney.  "A little bit better."

We parked at the rink.  Arriving there a little too early, we had some
time to kill.  So I put on Rodney's favorite CD, the soundtrack to
_Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse_.  Holding his little red box in
his lap, Rodney bobbed his head and yelled _CAN'T STOP ME NOW_ along
to the refrain of the first track.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-13-cant-stop-me-now.jpg">
    <img alt="cant-stop-me-now" src="/images/2021-05-13-cant-stop-me-now.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Get lost, haters - Wednesday is for SKATERS.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Wearing his new skates, Rodney oozed confidence.  He stood by the rink
door as a troupe of Madison high school figure skaters was exiting.
He waved and greeted each of them, holding out his leg so they could
marvel at his new footwear.

We took the ice together.  Rodney braced, then realizing his feet felt
more secure, he relaxed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-13-ice.jpg">
    <img alt="ice" src="/images/2021-05-13-ice.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We learned how to glide.  Rodney took fast tiny marches, then froze
his feet.  _Yes.  YES!  I'm doing it,_ he whispered behind his mask,
each glide sending him further and faster than the last.

<video width="400" controls="true">
  <source src="/vids/2021-05-13-little-marches.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Bummer - it looks like your browser doesn't support embedded video.
</video>

Rodney was doing so well, I took a spot along the boards and let him
glide around on his own for a while.

Practice ended unceremoniously, and we slipped out the back door
together.  Rodney and I followed the narrow sidewalk along the
building to the parking lot.  Out of nowhere, Rodney stopped, knelt to
the ground, and pumped his fist.

"Yes!  UGH.  I DIT IT - I SKATED," he growled, taking a quick power
stance in the grass.

When we got home, Rodney bolted into the backyard to tell Marissa
about the class.  Marissa had been in the kitchen since we left.

"I'm making beef wellington," she said.  "You know, something
_simple-."

Far from simple.  Marissa made individual beef wellington portions.  A
small seared filet topped with mustard and a mushroom and white wine
filling, all baked to a crisp in a little puff pastry ball.  It may
have been the best thing Marissa has ever made in her weekly dinner
slot.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-13-beef-wellington.jpg">
    <img alt="beef-wellington" src="/images/2021-05-13-beef-wellington.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We put the kids to bed and caught up on chores.  Things started to
wind down for the night, and I went downstairs into the studio gallery
to check if Marissa was ready to pour a drink and watch a movie.

"I just have a few more things to do," she said.  "I'll be up in a
minute, then we can get cozy and watch a little more _DBT_."

"_DBT_?" I repeated.  Marissa smiled, and I realized that she
abbreviated our movie pick.  "DBT?  What does that stand for?  Why
can't I remember what movie we're watching right now?"

I found the answer moments later when we were settled in on the couch.
"Drillbit Taylor.  D-B-T."  The joke really took hold, and the two of
us began to laugh a little harder.

"Finally we can settle down to watch some _DBT_," I said.

"I've been thinking about watching _DBT_ all day," said Marissa.

"Classic us," I echoed.  "You can always find us watching a little DBT
in the PM."

The genius of the joke is that it pulls you into a different world
where the pleasant but extremely forgettable Owen Wilson movie
_Drillbit Taylor_ is a staple in our movie collection.  In this world,
we watch and reference _Drillbit Taylor_ so often that we needed to
abbreviate it.

So what's left to say?  We finally got to kick back, relax on the
couch, and put on a little _DBT_.  That's all we've been trying to do
all day.  Life is hard enough as it is.  At the end of my day, I don't
want to do something stressful, tiring, or something that takes too
much concentration.  Sometimes you gotta just pull up a chair and
treat yourself to a little _DBT_.

Thanks for stopping by, friends.  Have a great Thursday.  Treat
yourslef to some _DBT_ today.
