---
title: beschuiten, cluster ssh, and brad
banner: 2021-05-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, people of the journal.  Happy... Wednesday?  Ah yep,
Wednesday.  That's a shame, I thought it was a Saturday.  I had a
neighborhood friend over for a beer yesterday, and we had so much fun
it turned into a few more beers - but more on that later.  I had one
of those mornings where it felt unnatural to get up so early.  My
phone alarm, rather than an invitation to start the work day, felt
like an intrusion on a perfectly good morning to sleep in.  But the
illusion only lasted for a few seconds, and the morning routine
auto-pilot module finally kicked in.

Happy Wednesday everyone.  We've got a lot of action on the calendar
today.  I've been tapped for an onboarding session for new engineers,
so I'll be wearing my chipper _welcome to Zendesk_ face.  I've got my
list of personal fun facts and funny stories at the ready for new
employee ice breakers.

After work, Rodney and I have an ice skating lesson.  It's the
highlight of his week, the biggest circle on the paw patrol calendar
hung up on the wall.  The truth is if I had a paw patrol calendar on
my wall, I'd have a big circle on each Wednesday too.  It's been so
much fun watching Rodney build confidence with standing on skates.

_Sip_.  How are you all feeling today?  Are you keeping up with work
this week?  Have you tried any new foods?  What has breakfast been
like these days?  In our last Dutch practice, Famke and I talked about
what Dutch people ate.  She tells me that _een echte Nederlander_ - a
_real_ Dutch person - only eats a big meal for dinner.  She found it
funny how Americans sometimes have big meals for lunch on the same
day.  "That's like eating two dinners - you can't do that!" she
laughed.  Maybe a lunch beer paired with a good Wisconsin fish fry
would change her mind.

_Een echte Nederlander_ eats a sandwich for lunch, and a _beschuit_
for breakfast.

"Wat is een beschuit?" I asked.  She described a small wafer-like
cookie.  Out of curiosity, I ordered a pack from Amazon.

Well, my shipment of _beschuiten_ finally arrived, and the good news
was that you get a lot of bang for you buck.  Twenty dollars got me
six sleeves of _beschuiten_.  Marissa was confused.  She lined them
all up on the coffee bar.  She thought I had lost my mind.

We each tried a bite.  They're simple and on the dry side.  These
_beschuiten_ aren't going to take you on a decedent adventure like a
cookie or even a stroopwaffel, but for a quick breakfast I could see
the appeal.

I made it my mission to get Rodney to like _beschuiten_, if anything
just to help me work through the enormous backlog I ordered.  When he
had finished his dinner, Marissa and I deliberated on whether or not
he deserved a special cookie, in the style of "good cop, bad cop".

"I don't know," I said, pretending to anguish.  "I only have six
sleeves.  That's not that many, I kind of want these for myself."

"Don't be selfish," said Marissa.  "He can try one."

"OK," I said, nodding slowly.  "Let me get the special _beschuit_
plate out."

I retrieved one of our ornate dessert plates from the cabinet, placing
a _beschuit_ in the middle.  I walked it slowly and ceremonially over
to the dining room table.  We presented Rodney with his _beschuit_.
He gingerly took a bite.

"Kinda pretty... crunchy," said Rodney.  Marissa and I exchanged a
smirk.

"These are special, because you can eat them for _breakfast_," I said.
Rodney's mouth hung open in amazement.  Hook.  Line.  Sinker.

The work day was packed with action too.  There was a problem with the
tool that collects metrics from my team's servers, and because the
servers couldn't send metrics, all of our alerts were triggered at
once.  Brook, the on-call engineer, said his phone was blowing up all
day starting in the early morning.  When he set up the pager app on
his phone, he chose the _sad trombone_ alert noise because he thought
it was funny.  "My wife has been hearing a lot of sad trombones today,
she doesn't think it's funny," he said.  The sad trombone is a solid
choice.  My personal favorite is the barber shop quartet that sings
_THE SERVERS ON FIIIIIIIIIIRE_.

Brook and I paired to fix the issue.  We found that our servers were
using an old authentication token and it had to be replaced.  We had a
chance to bust out Cluster SSH, one of my favorite tools.  Cluster SSH
allows you to connect to multiple servers and issue commands to them
simultaneously.  You type in one window and it sends the commands to
multiple terminals at once.  Brook ran the command I sent him, and his
screen was covered in terminals.  He agreed that Cluster SSH makes you
look very cool - the closest our job ever comes to the likes of a
hacker on CSI.

We divided and conquered.  Updating dozens of servers at a time, we
flipped the ocean of red alerts to green.  Nothing beats the feeling
of swiftly fixing something.

After dinner, my friend Brad came by the house.  He stopped by to pick
up some computer parts and have a beer.  He was also celebrating two
weeks since his second vaccine.  It was an honor being his first hug
since COVID.

I could try to use words to describe what a true Madison east sider
is, or I could just introduce you to Brad.  Patient.  Funny.
Conscientious.  Liberal.  Eccentric.  Thrifty.  Lives life between
hard work and good beer.

"I just say yes to things," he laughed.  That attitude has thrown him
into numerous neighborhood programs beyond the computer club where we
met.  Brad attends neighborhood meetings, moderates online groups,
fixes websites, and helps out at festivals.  He even MC'd the talent
show at the local east side elementary school.

Our beer turned into a few beers.  Marissa put off art show work and
joined us.  Brad amused us with alien conspiracy theories, stories of
neighborhood Facebook fights, and observations like what somebody's
face does when they are about to say something racist.

"They always look both ways," said Brad.  "When somebody leans in and
looks booth ways before saying something, it's best to just walk
away."

Words to live by.  Thank you, Brad.  Have a great Wednesday, everyone.
