---
title: chicken tendies, fish tacos, and our bathroom sink
banner: 2021-06-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  I'm grateful to already be
near the end of this work week.  Some ticket duty weeks squeeze me dry
like a sponge, but at least they make the week go by fast.  I'm
already looking forward to the next moment I can sit outside without
my phone dinging next to me.  This too shall pass.

But this moment is pretty good too.  A bird is singing just beyond our
front yard, and it sounds nice over the electric hum of the fishtank
in the living room corner.  It's just me and Ziggy here.  She's has
assumed her "firefox logo" position, curled into a pretty grey and
white ball on her own chair.

_Sip_.  How are you today?  What kind of work week are you having?
Yesterday pulled me into several different directions, but I carved
out time for a lunch date with Rob.  Apparently the two of us lack the
creativity to pick any other restaurant than the Brass Ring, but why
should we go anywhere else?  It has a shady outdoor patio with a nice
view of the capitol.  They have a deep, respectable tap list.  And -
Rob's words - their _chicken tendies_ are phenomenal.  Not to mention
the place is completely empty at lunch time.  On second thought, maybe
we had better downplay this gem.  The last thing we need is for our
favorite _chicken tendies_ spot to get blown up.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-10-brass-ring.jpg">
    <img alt="brass-ring" src="/images/2021-06-10-brass-ring.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Don't come here</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Work was work.  Slack threads.  Zoom calls.  Fong and I started doing
research to prepare for our incident post mortem.  Now that our former
intern Connor is graduated and hired as a full fledged teammate, we
looped him in on some of the work.  He was not familiar with all the
paper work and process that goes into incidents.  We were making a
detailed timeline, submitting screenshots and dashboards for evidence
of impact, and creating a thorough remediation plan.

"It's like you're a cop or something," said Connor.  My imagination
ran wild, and I pictured myself as a detective in a dimly lit police
station sifting though Polaroid photos.  _Here, the server's healthcheck
failed.  The process didn't even have a chance to exit cleanly.
Dropped TCP packets, stack traces, and kernel panics.  Not a pretty
picture - what kind of monster could have done this?_

In other news, Miles pulled an interesting magic trick yesterday.
When I went to collect him from his afternoon nap, he had managed to
pull his shirt up over his head, but his arms were still in his
sleeves.  You read that right.  Luckily I have a picture.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-10-shirt.jpg">
    <img alt="shirt" src="/images/2021-06-10-shirt.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Marissa and I stood around him and laughed.  "No wonder he was
screaming so much," she commented.  The visual of Miles shrieking and
wriggling out of his t-shirt gave us a good laugh.

I feel like I don't talk about Miles much these days.  The truth is
he's in a rough stage of development.  All his teeth are growing
simultaneously, and his promotion to people food has caused an
overwhelming surge in his poop production.

One year olds are tough.  They still require all the same care they do
when they're three months old, but they're heavier, louder, and
smellier.  When Marissa and I change his diaper, you can hear sound
bites like these:

_Fine, don't wear socks._

_Good god, what did you eat?_

_Could you lay on your back without completely freaking out just once?_

_Oh good, now you're thrashing.  That's helpful._

Rodney and I had an ice skating lesson.  Afterwards, Marissa treated
us to fish tacos.  She found the recipe from a random YouTuber whom
she mistakingly thought was Chef John.

"I thought it was his old channel or something," said Marissa.  "But I
thought it was weird how he kept advertising his seasoning.

We called him _Budget_ Chef John.  _Bizarro_ Chef John.  _Kirkland
Brand_ Chef John.  But whoever this mysterious YouTuber was, the tacos
were fantastic.  A tangy cabbage and carrot salad on seared tilapia
with a side of pico de gallo.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-10-tacos.jpg">
    <img alt="tacos" src="/images/2021-06-10-tacos.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Putting Rodney to bed, I gave him a choice between evening questions
and hanging out with the super worms.  Being in a bug mood, he chose
the super worms.  I sat him at my desk and let him poke around their
habitat with the tongs.  I think we both get the same kind of
enjoyment from watching the tough, fat worms wriggle around.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-10-beetles-hang-out.jpg">
    <img alt="beetles-hang-out" src="/images/2021-06-10-beetles-hang-out.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Tomorrow marks ten days of isolation for the first class of pupas.
This was the first class that I kind of botched by opening the box lid
too often.  I expect to have a few dead worms on my hands, but that's
nature.  Death isn't so tragic with insects - that's why they lay so
many eggs.  Imagine if instead of curing diseases and anticipating
natural disasters, humans overcame these dangers by just having more
babies.  That's the _Zophobas morio_ way.

I prepared the second tank yesterday for the adult beetles.  They got
a fresh layer of oats, but since I'll need to search and move hatched
worm babies from this one, I made the substrate shallower.  I also
gave them a cut up egg carton to climb around on.  I can't wait to
fill this thing with beetles.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-10-beetles-habitat.jpg">
    <img alt="beetles-habitat" src="/images/2021-06-10-beetles-habitat.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Marissa worked in the bathroom yesterday.  She set out to replace the
faucet and drain - a simple aesthetic change.  But she discovered new,
exciting problems with the way our sink was installed.  The heavy
porcelain cover in front of the pipes wasn't supporting the sink at
all.  The whole thing rested on the pipes themselves, causing them to
warp under the strain.  She showed me where the sink pulled off the
wall, and how the previous owners just caulked it back in place.

"How long are we going to live here before we stop finding these
surprises," she wondered aloud.

That's what I got today.  Have a great Thursday, everyone.
