---
title: 'from the homework vault: johnny lightfoot'
banner: 2021-01-03.jpg
---

I got my first job in eight grade.  A few times a week after school,
my mom would drop me off at church so I could stock the vending
machines with my best friend Johnny.  Our seventh grade year was our
last year attending school together.  He and his parents decided to do
homeschool going forward.  I was sad to see Johnny go, but this little
church vending machine gig was a fun way to keep in touch throughout
our first school year apart.

I'd usually find Johnny perched on a high ledge in the poorly
ventilated stockroom.  The church's supply of chips and snacks were
kept on high on wooden shelves.  We could have gotten a ladder if we
asked for one, but being eighth grade boys who lived half our waking
lives in video games, we instead climbed around like a couple of
amateur splinter cell agents.

After stocking the machines, we took our usual places in our boss
Luke's cramped office.  In lieu of payment, Luke tutored us in
Biblical Greek.  Still sweating from climbing around the stock room,
Johnny and I patiently took turns reading from the Greek New Testament
with a copy of Bill Mounce's _Basics of Biblical Greek_ open on the
table - a book that is still on my shelf.

That was a happy time in my life.  If not for the vending machine gig,
figuring out how to go on with school without my best friend in class
would have been a lot more difficult.  I'm grateful that we had a
whole extra year to bond over doing grunt work at church.

I wrote this story for ninth grade English class, dated December
16 2005.  It's a silly re-imagining of our shared vending machine
stocking experience as a super hero origin story.  _Johnny Lightfoot_
is heavily inspired by (if not plagarizing) The Spider-Man 2 video
game.

---

The church door swung ajar as Johnny strolled in for his first day on
the job.  He didn’t know what to expect, but how hard could stocking a
few vending machines be?  As he made his way through the aged
corridors of the church sanctuary, he halted at a rusted door.  The
plate just above the center read "Volunteers HQ" in chipped letters.
Not so confident now, he wrapped his sweaty fingers around the copper
doorknob and entered the room.  Behind an oak desk lay a chair, turned
the other way, revealing only a steady puff of smoke rising up to the
ceiling fan.  A gold name plate on the desk read "Luke ‘Da’ Boss’ T."

Johnny squeamishly stepped closer and, with a timid voice, said, "Uh,
Mr. T?"  The chair violently swung in his direction, revealing a man
with a scruffy beard and puffing on what was left of a cigar stub.

"You da’ new guy?"  said the man in a flat, heavy Chicago accent.
Before Johnny could respond, the man rose from his seat and began
speaking again.  "You must be here for the vendin’ job.  It’s as
simple as gravy," he continued as he shoved Johnny into a store room,
"Get the stuff on da’ cart, and fill the thing up nice.  Got it?"
Johnny stared at him.  He had no idea what he had just said, but he
did not want to anger the man.

"What if I get hungry?  Will I get dinner?" squealed Johnny.

"If you can’t figure that out," retorted Luke, "then you’re just plain
slow, kid."  Luke slammed the door and stomped away.  Johnny was
embarrassed at his rudeness, but he was jumped and robbed of his lunch
on the walk there, leaving him ravenously hungry.  He slipped a Reeses
peanut butter cup into his pocket, and began to load the candy on the
cart.  As he worked furiously, he could hear rain and wind picking up
outside, making him dread the walk home.

Two hours later, Johnny stepped outside with an envelope full of
change.  The sky was black with frequent lightning, but the rain had
ceased.  He remembered the candy in his pocket, removed the wrapper,
and stuffed the peanut butter delight into his mouth.  Just as he
chewed it for the third time, he was overcome with an awful, acidic
taste.  The sensation burned his mouth; Johnny knew he had been
poisoned.  His eyes rolled back into his head and he collapsed.  He
began to shake in violent convulsions.  He was in too much pain to
yell.  Through his blurred vision, he could see the sky above him
glow, preparing for a lightning strike.  He saw white, then blacked
out.

He awoke in the same state, staring at a black sky.  The moon, now
visible through the rumbling atmosphere, illuminated the parking lot
in an eerie light.  He made a slow effort to regain his posture, but
he hit a tree branch well above him and fell to the ground.  Johnny
peered at the obstruction from his fetal position on the pavement.
The branch was at least twenty feet above the ground.  Lost in
confusion, Johnny stood and reached for the wall.  He was sprung from
his feet and slammed into the stone siding.  Johnny made no effort to
stand again.

"Is there something wrong with my legs?" Johnny questioned to himself.
He rolled up his pant leg, revealing enormous calf muscles that
pulsated with each heartbeat.  He felt up and down from his waste to
his ankle; all his leg muscles were tight and lean.  He made a final
effort to rise; this time it was slow and steady.  He was on his feet,
but when he took two steps, he was already near the farthest car in
the lot, at least fifty feet from the vestibule.

He paced in small steps until he reached the heart of the city.  It
was midnight, and the town was crawling with thugs and drug dealers.
Johnny kept his head to the ground, taking fast baby steps.  He was
knocked to the ground by a thick body.

"Got any thing to brighten my day, Suzy?" said a hooded thug holding a
.44 to Johnny’s face.  Three other men in sweatshirts crowded him.
One raised his arm to strike him.  Rather than flinching, Johnny
ducked and dove behind the man.  He turned and, to his surprise, saw
the man with his arm still raised, only to swing at empty air.  The
fact hit Johnny like a leather belt.

"I have super speed," he whispered to himself.  He gave a cackle to
the gang, and hollered, "A bit slow today, eh?"  The man turned to
fire at him.  Johnny turned, held his breath, and took off in a
violent sprint.  The world before him warped into a faint light.
Before he heard the gun shot, he ran square into his garage door.  He
arrived at his house, which was at least a three-mile walk.  "What a
night," he stated as he walked, now voluntarily slower, into the
house.

The following day, Johnny sat in his room, stunned with wonder.  As he
stared into the evening sky, he noticed that even his thoughts were
faster.  He picked up a marvel comic on his desk.  On the cover was
Quicksilver, his favorite hero.  Johnny hated the corruption in his
city, and, at that moment, vowed to end it.  After his dinner, he
headed out the door in search of some crime.  After heading deeper
into the downtown area, he climbed into a dumpster and waited.  Sure
enough, an innocent elderly woman came around the corner, daintily
stepping, hiding in her white bonnet.  Three men stormed her from an
adjacent door.

One holding a baseball bat yelled, "Easy pickin’ boys."  Johnny was
fuming with rage.  Just as one was about to strike her, Johnny
exploded from the dumpster.  The familiar light engulfed his vision.
He rushed at the man and wound up for a bone-crushing punch.  He
unloaded his blow on the attacker and sent him through a brick wall.
Johnny turned and elbowed another in the mouth, sending his teeth in
all directions.  The third man wound up to slap the lady, but Johnny
pounced on him.  He grabbed the man with a quick jerk and sprinted up
the wall.  He threw the man as far as he could, and slammed down on to
the pavement.  He could still here the man’s faint moan as he fell
from the heavens.

"I’m Johnny," said he, "It was a pleasure saving your life Madame."

The old woman, slightly delusional from the intense action she had
just witnessed, exclaimed, "Johnny Lightfoot, you are my hero!"  She
continued as she squeezed him with a feeble hug, "I’ll repay you
someday!"

"No need, Mam.  I don’t expect you to," Said Johnny proudly.

Johnny continued to foil muggings and spoil drug transactions through
the whole city until he became the town hero.  No one ever saw his
face but the old woman, for he could travel at the speed of sound
itself.  The name the woman had dubbed him, Johnny Lightfoot, had
become the name criminals feared.

It was a Friday morning, and the proud city of Chicago was as
productive as ever.  Traffic and pedestrians crowded the streets and
roads.  The sun danced of the brilliant skyscrapers in a blinding
prism.  The pride of the city, the Sears Tower stood taller than ever.
There wasn’t a cloud in the sky or a puddle on the ground.  It was
then that the pavement began to rumble.

The town halted in confusion as the held their ears to the faint noise
that was gradually growing.  A crevice split the street on Fifth
Avenue, and a set of titanium tentacles pierced the sunrise.  Terror
broke out through the city.  Johnny Lightfoot’s name was echoed in
desperation through every alley, until a sonic boom and a quick flash
stimulated a short jubilee.

Johnny was running with all his might.  In his vision, he could see
the machine.  It had eight legs attached to an orb with a tinted
window.  Johnny ran faster and faster, until his legs lifted off the
ground.  He could see the head of the machine coming fast, as he
braced for a punch.  The machine whirled and grabbed him by the torso;
it squeezed with a merciless grip. The window opened, revealing an
erratic bald man.

"Do you know who I am?"  whined the man.  Johnny only struggled.  The
man continued, "Clarence Lorenzo Atrius is the name.  I was an
excellent vending machine stocker until you replaced me!"  It all made
sense to Johnny.  He was the man that had poisoned him.  He would have
died if it weren’t for the lightning strike!  "Looks like I’m getting
re-hired!"  He threw Johnny into the ground.  Johnny bounced into a
pile of sharp metal and moaned in pain.  The town was stunned.  Their
hero had been killed instantly.  The machine marched toward the center
of town, destroying entire buildings with single swipes.

All appeared hopeless until a feeble voice challenged the beast.  "O
say, can you see, by the bombs early light!"  The same old woman was
singing at the top of her lungs, waving a tattered flag above her.
The city slowly joined her in a wonderful chorus of the anthem.
Johnny, still barely conscious, caught a glimpse of the sight through
the rubble.  He realized what he was fighting for.  Johnny crawled
from the smoldering pile and yelled at the monster.  The town exploded
with praise.

"Mess ‘m up, Lightfoot!  Give ‘em one for the Stars ‘n Bars!"
screamed a bystander.  "Knock this clown cold out!  Put this fool on a
stretcher!" hollered another.  Johnny rushed at the machine with a
greater speed than ever, and threw the most terrific punch.  The
machine fell, then stood again only to suffer from more repeated
blows.  Johnny was angrier than ever, as he hurled his fist at the
bending metal.  Johnny punched the window open, and gnarled to the man
with a smirk, "You’re fired."  With that, Johnny sent the machine into
a brilliant explosion.  Orange and yellow flames surged into the air,
hurling chunks of the monster in all directions.  Johnny escaped the
explosion and landed near the old woman, still waving the tattered
flag.

"Thank you," he said just before he took off into the sunrise, leaving
the old woman beaming with delight.
