---
title: vaccines, snowplow sams, and a wishlist for miles
banner: 2021-04-28.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, comrades.  Welcome to Wednesday.  There are meetings to
attend, spreadsheets to be filled out, and _rundowns_ to be made.  We
have lots of things we need to circle back on - not to mention all
those things that we _put a pin in_.  Let's just not try to boil the
ocean this time, OK?

_Sip_.  How are you all feeling?  Have you managed to get a hold of a
COVID vaccine yet?  Marissa got her second stick yesterday.  She
completed the long, tedious journey back to the Racine mall for the
second installment of the Pfizer vaccine.  By the time she was
finished and ready to reward herself with an Auntie Ann's pretzel, the
symptomatic nausea was already to setting in.

"I just picked up a crummy scone from the Starbucks drive through
instead," she said.

So far, that touch of nausea was the only side-effects she felt from
her second dose.  But missing out on mom for most of the day was
complicated, disruptive, and exhausting for pretty much everyone in
this house.  We're still not sure why we each had to drive to Racine.
Our governor is on Twitter bragging about how Wisconsin is leading the
nation with vaccine availability.  We see Wisconsinites reeling on
Reddit and Facebook about how there are thousands of appointments
available.  But each time we called the Wisconsin Department of
Health, the best they could do for us was Racine.

"It's funny," recounted Marissa.  "The people on the phone aren't even
from Wisconsin.  I talked to a really nice lady from down south who
was like 'How about Milwaukee?  Is that closer to Madison?'"

Marissa left in the middle of our lunch.  Rodney was waiting at the
sink with sticky hands.  Miles shrieked in his high chair, beckoning
for more food.  Minnie zipped under my chair dragging a slipper
behind her.  My phone chirped, reminding me I had another meeting in
fifteen minutes, but I also had a new email from the Madison Ice arena
that read "Spring Classes Open for Registration".

I set Miles food aside and quickly relocated to the computer.  He
shrieked in protest.  I opened the link in the email, which took me to
a very old website with about a zillion little fields to fill out.

"So there I was," I told Marissa.  "Fifteen minutes until my next
meeting.  Miles was screaming at me for more food.  And their website
did a full refresh every time I clicked a text field or a drop down.
It was the most focused I had ever been in my entire life."

I got Rodney signed up for the class.  The "Snowplow Sams" level meets
at 5 PM each Wednesday for the next six weeks.  The classes are thirty
minutes.  Maybe it's just me, but thirty minutes seems awfully brief.
Sometimes it takes us thirty minutes just to get out the door to go
for a family walk.  I can hardly imagine fitting a whole ice skating
lesson in that amount of time.

"I get to stand out there on the ice with him," I told Marissa.  "The
brochure says they learn to skate with songs and games."

"But only for thirty minutes," said Marissa.  I chortled.  That's when
the new imaginary comedic character _Super Lazy Kids Skating
Instructor_ was born.

_OK Snowplow Sams, why don't we start by just going around and
introducing ourselves.  OK, sorry we didn't get to everybody this
week, thanks for coming out and drive safe._

_OK, kids.  Why don't you just kind of walk around for a while, I'm
going to go make a sandwich.  Just do your best._

_No skates today, we're just going to focus on songs and games.
Everybody grab a pinwheel._

In other news, Miles' first birthday is coming up.  What do you buy a
one  year old baby.  "Does he have an Amazon Wishlist or something?"
wrote my sister in a quick message.

An amazon wishlist for Miles.  What would that look like?  I was
inspired enough to actually make one.  The ten minutes it took me to
throw together a joke wishlist for our chess club caricature of Miles
was probably my favorite moment of the day.  It was all worth it for a
good joke.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-28-wish-list.png">
<img alt="2021 04 28 wish list" src="/images/2021-04-28-wish-list.png"/>
</a>
</figure>

I think adding a four thousand dollar hand carved chessboard up at the
top was a particularly nice touch.

Marissa got home from her shot when my work day ended.  We're not used
to being apart for that long, so we spent some time just chatting on
the deck.  She handed Rodney a mango smoothie.  "Is that my _second_
medince smoothie?" he asked.

(Remember, we told Rodney that he was also getting the vaccine, but in
smoothie form)

"That's right," said Marissa.  "You gotta drink it all, dude."

"The whole global scientific community has been feverishly working to
get you that smoothie, dude," I added.  "Don't waste a drop."

We ate dinner and watched the Hawks game.  The evening went by in a
blur, and before I knew it we were heading up to bed ourselves.  The
dogs followed behind.  I scooped Minnie up and put her in her crate."

"Hey, I have a bone to pick with you," said Marissa.  "When we go
upstairs for the night, why do you put Minnie in her crate so soon?  I
like to snuggle her before bed."

"Because she's naughty!" I retorted.  "There was one night while you
were still downstairs feeding the fish, and I swear she jumped between
like twelve different things she wasn't supposed to be chewing on."

"But she's so tired from today," said Marissa.  "She'll be fine.  She
can come out and snuggle while we're getting ready."

We let Minnie out of her crate, and it only took her sixty seconds to
prove me right.  While we brushed our teeth, Minnie put a dozen tiny
teeth marks in our shared copy of Francis Chan's _Letters to the
Church_.

"I told you," I said smugly.  "She's perfect, but she's also kind of
naughty."

"But mostly perfect," said Marissa, finishing my thought.  Thanks for
stopping by today.  Happy Wednesday, everyone.
