---
title: happy hour, wyatt kalynuk, and ball pit drama
banner: 2021-05-14.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Congratulations on making it to Friday.  If
you're on the same vaccination timeline as I am, than we just passed
the fourteen day mark and we're probably going to have an excellent
weekend.  We're celebrating tonight by taking the boys to Dave &
Busters.

"What's Dave & Buster's?" asked Mimi on yesterday's Duo call after
dinner.

"It's this place with video games and prizes over by the mall," said
Marissa.

"It's basically a casino for children," I added.

"What are you doing for dinner?" asked Mimi.

"We're just eating at Dave & Busters," said Marissa.  "It's kind of
like a mix between Buffalo Wild Wings and Chuck E. Cheese."

I nodded to Marissa in approval of the apt comparison.  "We'll eat
their terrible food, and _then_ we gamble with their fake money."

You could argue that we've been looking forward to this all year.  To
our family, Dave & Busters isn't just a place to eat thawed chicken
fingers and teach children to gamble.  It's a milestone.  It's a
distant goal.  A lighthouse in the storm.  Our silly trip tonight is a
symbolic gesture of our family returning to a more normal world.

On to more pressing matters.  Last night while getting ready for bed,
Marissa and I got distracted by the super worms box on my shelf.  It's
fascinating watching the patterns emerge.  Most times I look at the
box, all the worms are beneath the surface.  But every two days or so
they emerge to explore, eat, and sniff each other.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-14-worm-walk.jpg">
    <img alt="worm-walk" src="/images/2021-05-14-worm-walk.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Two prominent fatso's take an evening stroll around the pasture.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Some of them are starting to get fat.  After about a month or so, I
may attempt to turn the fatter ones into beetles.  These worms are
just the larval stage of the darkling beetle.  It sounds cruel, but to
trigger the next stage of their development, they have to be separated
from the other worms, kept somewhere dark without food.

One thing's for sure - the decorative plastic car was a dumb idea.
They don't seem to mind the little Mad Max shrine in the corner, but
each time I reposition the car it just ends up sinking below the
surface of the oats.  I will probably just give it to Rodney - after a
thorough bleaching, of course.

_Sip_.  I get the feeling I've put you through enough worm talk.  How
did your Thursday go?  Yesterday I got to meet three out of our four
interns.  Around the office, we've had this running joke that the
interns aren't real, and we have lots of fun making up our own
conspiracy theories.  When we are on calls together, perhaps it's just
an AI sending generated audio and video data over the wire.  Maybe
they are just paid actors helping Zendesk conduct a long running
loyalty test.  Maybe they are just manifestations of my own work
stress, or a regular ol' case of mass hysteria.

Well, I can be sure that at least three of them are real.  I met them
after work on the terrace for a beer.  The "terrace" is a regular
hangout for UW students, but I had only been there one other time.
For me, it was an exciting adventure that involved parking in a new
parking garage and taking a sunny walk through an unfamiliar, youthful
part of town.

We found an empty table together.  In no time, we found the same group
chemistry we share on zoom calls, but it's so much more fulfilling in
person.  To feel the table shake while people laugh, to watch their
eyes while they're telling a story.  Even pouring beer out of the same
plastic pitcher felt intimate and special.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-14-happy-hour.jpg">
    <img alt="happy-hour" src="/images/2021-05-14-happy-hour.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

As we were talking, a pair of students lumbered by.  One of them
stopped to give Connor a fist bump, and they had a brief side
conversation.  After the stranger wandered away, Connor filled us in.

"I took Swedish with that dude," said Connor.  "He's Swedish and he
already spoke the language.  He's a hockey player I think."

I jumped in.  "Did you know hockey is huge in Sweden?"  I feel like
the NHL is just pillaging them right now.  The Blackhawks just picked
up this rookie, this Swedish kid from UW actually.  Wyatt Kalynuk."

Connor's eyes bulged across the table.  He glanced down at his phone.
"That guy's name is Wyatt," he said.  "Yeah, that's him.  Wyatt
Kalynuk."  And that's how I _sort of_ got to meet one of the players
we had been watching all quarantine.

Back at home, Miles and Rodney were enjoying the spoils of their new
ball pit. They must have spent all day in that thing.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-14-ballpit.jpg">
    <img alt="ballpit" src="/images/2021-05-14-ballpit.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Marissa bought a reload of plastic balls.  During his quiet time,
Rodney scooted the plastic car filled with balls into his room.  Out
of boredom, he filled it with every toy he owned.  When it came time
to clean his room, the thin framed car was bursting at the seams.
Rodney dumped his metal cars into it.  He dumped some of his k'nex
into it.  He dumped his Paw Patrol action figures and vehicles into
it.  Marissa began to tease through the mess while Rodney sat on his
bed in his pajamas, waiting for a bedtime story.

"Hey, will you help me with this?" said Marissa.  I got up from my
computer chair and joined her in Rodney's bedroom.

"I just... I don't know what to do right now," she sighed.  "Dude,
you... you can't do this."  She began to unzip the car and pull toys
out.

"Well don't just dump everything out," I said.  "He's gotta go to bed,
we'll be doing this for hours."

We were frustrated with Rodney, but after talking it through, we
concluded it wasn't his fault.  We hadn't laid any ground rules about
the car ball pit.  Rodney wouldn't have been able to anticipate the
consequences of filling the car with more toys.

"We'll have Rodney sort the toys tomorrow." I said.  I turned to
Rodney.  "You're going to help momma clean this up.  You guys can put
on some rock music and have a fun cleaning party.  And from now on,
just balls go in the ball pit."

Ball pit drama, huh?  Have a great Friday, everybody.
