---
title: bill and ted, legos, and the blues brothers
banner: 2021-02-24.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  After a random day off yesterday, it feels
good to rejoin you all on regular working hours.  Although looking at
my calendar, you could argue that today should have been my day off.
Mysteriously, I don't have a single meeting all day, which will make
for a gentle re-acclimation.  That begs the question - what happened
yesterday?  Was I fired?  Did they just forget about me?  Why does
nobody need me today?

It's a beautiful day today.  The weather is consistently warming up,
and our living room is clean and filled with sun.  I'm writing on the
couch, and beside me we have one of Rodney's new LEGO creations set
out like decorative art.

Rodney made a structure yesterday during quiet time.  I was so pleased
to see him getting the most out of his alone time and focusing on
something constructive.  Seeing me peek my head through his doorway,
he scooted a pile of legos on his bed to the side and invited me in to
check it out.  He held out a bare structure with a stair case and some
floating platforms.

He re-used the Spider-Man and Mysterio bank robbery set he got for
Christmas last year.  I recognized the characters, some of the decor
from the bank, and the big circular vault latch.  He had re-purposed
the pieces in his own way.  Mysterio stands on the edge of the highest
platform, looking down on the vault latch like it's some kind of
powerful artifact.  Spider-Man and Venom watch from below.  Just
behind Mysterio stands Gwen Stacy, poised like she is making one last
appeal to Mysterio's reasoning.

"It's our house!" said Rodney.

Suddenly, the picture became clear.  The upstairs and living room came
into view.  The four Spider-Man characters were apt stand-ins for me,
Marissa, Rodney, and Miles.  The long platform on top started to look
like the upstairs hallway.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-24-structure-1.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 24 structure 1" src="/images/2021-02-24-structure-1.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"And LOOK, dada," said Rodney spinning the structure around.  "It's
our fish tank."

Rodney found a transparent cube and filled it with smaller bricks.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-24-structure-2.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 24 structure 2" src="/images/2021-02-24-structure-2.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Lego's are a good lens into how kids see the world, aren't they?
Maybe Mysterio at the edge of the platform really just represented
Rodney in his room during quiet time.  I love studying the stuff
Rodney makes.

_Sip_.  So here we are - Wednesday morning.  How did your Tuesday go?
Even though I took the day off, my morning felt pretty much the same.
Marissa is still feeling just about the same - congested, achy, and a
bit queasy.  We're still waiting for the COVID test to arrive in the
mail.  Until then, she gets the platinum package in the sweet of
Recker family sick day perks.  Her own blanket and pillow on the
couch, full control of the remote, and all the Gatorade, cheese, and
crackers she can handle.

She still went through with her Instagram interview, though.  She put
on a nice outfit, slammed some coffee, and fooled the Internet into
thinking she was her same bubbly and optimistic self.  Rodney and I
watched the interview from upstairs.  After she had signed off, she
practically crumpled into the couch.

After eating lunch, we kicked off our sick day movie and TV marathon
with _Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure_.  As you might now, this has
been Rodney's favorite movie since before he could talk.  The movie
can be credited with imparting to Rodney a love of water slides, and
it has given us some toddler gibberish gems like _Ich'a'maaa'dooo_
(the reader might remember that it took us a year to realize that
Rodney was quoting the movie, _IT'S YOUR MOM, DUDE_).

Rodney still loves the movie, but he's older and more talkative.  He
quotes the scenes he likes and provides commentary.  What a different
perspective now!  As a two year old he used to watch the movie
silently and slack-jawed, and I would wonder if any of it was actually
getting through.

Meanwhile, I fell asleep on the couch beside Miles.  It would have
been a good nap, if Miles had stopped hitting me in the face with that
measuring cup every few minutes.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-24-couch-nap.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 24 couch nap" src="/images/2021-02-24-couch-nap.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

We all took a nap upstairs.  I picked up groceries and cooked dinner.
I turned on the Hawks game and slowly, Rodney and Marissa trickled
downstairs to join me.

The Blackhawks are a strange team this year.  Their roster is filled
with rookies, but they seemingly can't lose.  We were projected to be
dead last in the standings, but we are currently neck-and-neck for
first place in the division.  And yet all of our wins happen in
overtime.  I'm sure Rodney appreciates the trend.  Games taken to
extra minutes and a shoot-out just mean that his bedtime gets pushed
back on game nights.

I put both the boys to bed.  I cleaned up after dinner and finished my
chores.  I finally joined Marissa on the couch, and I let out a sixty
second sigh after taking my first sip of beer.

We finally wrapped up my movie pick, _The Blues Brothers_.  Marissa
and I have never seen it before.  What a silly movie.  I was
questioning whether it truly needed the staggering two and a half hour
running time, but the ending sequence was pretty incredible.

I also feel dumb that I missed all the celebrity cameos.  I caught Ray
Charles as the music shop owner, but my radar missed Aretha Franklin,
Carrie Fischer, and the others.  While closing up the house for the
night, Marissa and I exchanged the line "We're on a mission from God."
in our best Chicago accent.  _Weer on a misshin from gahd._  _Weer ahn
uh misshin frum GAHD_.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Wednesday, everybody.
