---
title: ravi, our coffee machine, and teeng tong
banner: 2021-02-12.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone!  Happy Friday.  Only an hour or so into the
morning, and things are off to a weird start.  Normally after brewing
coffee, I take a mug to the corner of the living room and kick off the
day with some reading and prayer.  But today instead of picking up the
Bible, I was diving into an article outlining the recent four month
long investigation into the private life of the late Pastor Ravi
Zacharias.  If you know of him, I'd encourage you to read about it
too.

This one stings.  Ravi was one of the best speaking pastors I've ever
heard.  I remember he visited our church once.  I used to listen to
his weekly podcast while commuting to my first software job in
Rockford.  Self-control, discipline, and holiness were recurring
themes in his messages.

Pray for his victims.  Pray for everyone else hearing the news today.
Pray for the people that are still serving at RZIM who will have to
face some big questions going forward.  What do you even do now going
forward?

Bit of a sad start, today huh?  Now that it's out of the way, how
about we reset.  I think it's time for a sip of coffee and a short
break.

_Sip_.  Nothing clears the head like a good cup of coffee.  Especially
when that coffee was poured out of your real coffee machine.  This
morning, our house was reunited with our sorely missed coffee machine.
It just arrived yesterday from it's voyage across the Atlantic where
it was repaired at the Technivorm headquarters, which I can only
imagine is just like a Dutch coffee themed version of Willy Wonka's
chocolate factory.  Perhaps there were little orange men giving tours
of the factory.  Maybe a fat little Dutch boy fell into a coffee river
there and, like what happened to our machine, got stuck in a much
larger copper coil.

If I didn't know any better, I'd think they just threw it away and
sent us a new machine.  The machine I took out of the box yesterday
was almost unrecognizable.  The metal was polished.  The plastic was
smudge free.  The water reservoir was as clear and clean as a contact
lens.

The timing was _almost_ perfect.  I ordered another six pound bag of
beans last week in hopes that the return of the coffee king would also
coincide with a fresh batch of coffee.  It didn't get here yet, so
we're celebrating with a slightly funky scoop of beans from the very
bottom of a three week old bag.

Hamilton Beach, you are relieved of duty.  You were adequate.  Your
coffee was hot and brown in a time of need.  Now, you will live in a
dark corner of our basement until the unthinkable happens again and I
swiftly call on your mediocre services.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a good day.  I got all my work done, and
in-between a day chock full of meetings I was still able to thread the
needle with a perfectly timed power nap.  I deployed Rodney as a human
alarm clock.  Exactly 30 minutes from when I told him, he came
bouncing into my room chirping _it's time for your meeting_.

Yesterday we had a visit from Papa.  He dropped off some pots they no
longer needed as well as some toys for Rodney and Miles.  Rodney made
quick work of the wrapping paper and ran off with his new little
building toys.

The new toy sent Rodney into a building binge.  After assembling the
new toys into what looked like a car, he dove into his standby k'nex
pile.  He made an eight blade helicopter witch mechanical rotors.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-12-helicopter.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 12 helicopter" src="/images/2021-02-12-helicopter.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Later he used his magnetiles, dominos, and playing cards to make a
racetrack.  Pushing a small car through the contraption, he followed
from behind with his "camera" mimicking the intro to a new Dude
Perfect video we just watched.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-12-racetrack.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 12 racetrack" src="/images/2021-02-12-racetrack.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

An than there's _Teeng Tong_.  Teeng Tong is a stick figure.  As I
snapped a picture, Rodney went on to explain Teeng Tong's nice
personality and distinguishing features, like his "grey hankins", his
"long arms", and his "white butt".

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-12-teeng-tong.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 12 teeng tong" src="/images/2021-02-12-teeng-tong.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"Teeng Tong has a white butt," explained Rodney.  "He has a little
white butt right here, and he's doesn't wear pants."  Clearly the
white butt is important to the character.

Anyway, shall we retro?

---

**Keep** riding the bike.  The newness of the stationary bike has
already worn off.  Even in the comfort of my own home with all of
YouTube to entertain me, exercise always gets boring.  But it feels
good to get the heart pumping again while it's so cold outside.  I
feel like it's given me more energy to get through the week.

**Add** new coffee beens.

**Less** Nashville hot chicken sandwiches from the Great Dane.  It
tastes good going down, but this morning I'd consider myself a victim
of a condition I call Nashville hot stomach.

**More** advice.  I hit kind of a low this week.  I reached out to a
trusted, experienced mentor at work and got some good perspective on
some doubts I was having.  It was a much needed rallying cry in the
middle of the week.

**More** power naps.  That was the best idea I had all week.

**More** small grocery trips.  This week we experimented with doing
smaller grocery trips instead of a big one in the middle of the week.
I think the shoppers at Hy-Vee like that a little more, and it's
easier to keep the house stocked when you have more chances to get
something on the list.

**More** puppies.  We're working on it.

That's what I got today, everyone.  Have a wonderful Friday.
