---
title: snow, talking football with ying, and indian snacks
banner: 2021-01-26.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.  I woke up this morning to a
winter wonderland.  As we were going to bed last night, a snow flurry
began to form under the cover of night, and it carried on through the
night.  Now outside we have at least a half foot of beautiful,
unbroken snow.  It's the good stuff too - shimmering, light, and airy.

I've pretty much grown to accept at least in this part of the country,
we get our best snow right around the time you are getting sick of
winter.  Wouldn't it be nice if these surges of winter magic would
show up a little earlier in the winter, like in December?  Instead,
we're stuck with cold rain and sleet while you are putting up
Christmas lights, and then just after you take them down comes the
surge of winter magic.  Good grief.

Let me set the scene here in my living room.  The floor is littered
with monster trucks and dog toys.  Rodney's giant remote control
_Grave Digger_ is parked on a wrinkled Twister mat, which makes for a
weird combination.  Our coffee machine still lies in pieces on the bar
like a half assembled science fair project.  The quiet trickle of
water can be heard coming out of the corner from a dark, murky fish
tank.  Rodney yawns loudly upstairs, and it sounds phony enough to
assume he's just trying to signal to me that he's awake and wants to
come out of his room.

This morning I'm enjoying Moka coffee from across the street.  Don't
worry - I picked this one up myself.  I couldn't in good conscience
send somebody out on the snow ravaged roads just for coffee.  Plus, if
Grubhub happened to pick Dan as my driver again, there's a good chance
that he'd be waiting on my porch to deliver a contact-free crowbar in
the crotch - and I wouldn't blame him.

So this morning, I brushed my teeth, threw on a jacket and hat, and
shook our car free of the snow. I skidded out onto the empty main road
and took the convoluted five turn route to get to the coffee shop
across the street.  I returned with two extra large cups of black
coffee and poured them straight into our pitcher.  For myself, I
bought an iced espresso - an cold shot of caffeine just to get the
morning journal out.

_Sip_.  It was a good day yesterday.  Pretty much the whole work day
built up to the afternoon where I'd execute the final big vault
change.  I joined a zoom call with Ying from our kubernetes team.  As
I ran commands from my laptop, Ying quietly worked and glanced at
their monitors.  The long pauses created by waiting for commands to
finish fostered some small talk.

Miles' shrill voice screeched through the monitor.  I wheeled over to
the side table to turn the baby monitor off.  "How old?" asked Ying.

"He's about nine months," I said.

"My daughter is ten months old," replied Ying.

"Oh yeah?" I laughed.  "So I bet we're doing a lot of the same stuff
right now.  Diapers and drool."

There was another silence.

"I thought your slack status was funny," said Ying.  "The one about
the Bears."

In slack, you can set an emoji and caption by your username.  Most
people use it to indicate when they're on vacation or in a meeting,
but I use mine for jokes and dry humor.  During the playoffs I had a
Bears logo captioned, _I don't want to get my hopes up, but the Bears
are definitely going to the Super Bowl_.

Ying and I got to talking about football.  I was delighted to hear
that she became a Patriots fan while going to school on the east
coast, but with the upcoming _big dance_ she was considering defecting
to the Kansas City Chiefs.  She approved of the Tom Brady trade, if
anything because now we get to see a Mahomes and Brady match-up -
young vs old.

"Yeah, how about that play-off game this weekend," I added.  "That was
pretty wild."

"When Tom Brady..." Ying paused.  "Sorry, I still have trouble talking
about football in English."  There was a short silence while she
glanced at her computer screen.  "_Interceptions_," she clarified.
"When Tom Brady threw the interceptions, I thought Aaron Rodgers would
beat him."

I silently pondered what the Chinese word for _interception_ was.  Are
there also Chinese equivalents for idioms like _move the sticks_ and
_wildcat snap_?  How would _I_ look those up in Chinese if I had to?

"Me too, Ying," I said with a smile.  "And I for one am glad that he
didn't."

As much as I would have liked to spend the rest of the day talking
football with my new friend Ying, we had to get on with other things.
At quitting time, I made my way into the living room where Rodney was
waiting to play a few rounds of _beat the crap_ on the Super Nintendo
before dinner.

My phone buzzed.  Our team's intern Ritik was waiting out front of our
house after leaving a paper bag on the front porch.  I cracked open
the front door and gave him a wave.  Ritik went home to India over the
break and to my delight, he brought back a bevvy of snacks.  The
interaction peaked Rodney's interest and he followed me into the
dining room.  Rodney pulled up a chair and began to dig through the
bag like it was a Christmas present.  Together Rodney and I sampled
coconut and cardamom samosas, minty and spicy fried potato crisps, and
chewy little sesame seed wedges.  I think Rodney and I both found joy
in how unexpected each bite was - things that looked like they would
be salty were sweet, things that looked like sweets were savory.
There were crisps shaped like little coiled snakes and chews lined
with what looked like shiny silver leaf - and it all tasted so
interesting.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-26-snacks.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 26 snacks" src="/images/2021-01-26-snacks.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Will a belly full of Indian spices and Marissa's homemade _Chicken a
la King_, I didn't stand a chance.  I was doomed to sleep through an
entire episode of _Ryan's World_ on the couch.  What a wonderful day.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Tuesday, everyone.
