---
title: the fishtank, the great rat massacre, and a broken window
banner: 2021-02-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, people.  Happy Monday.  The house felt brighter this
morning.  Maybe the long winter has me primed for optimism, but I
think the air smells differently too.  I feel inspired to stare past
the mounds of fresh snow on our deck and at least imagine that spring
is on its way.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-22-spring.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 22 spring" src="/images/2021-02-22-spring.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>Clearly, spring is right around the corner.</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

We're sitting somewhere between winter and spring, but it's also
Monday - no doubt about that.  It's a quiet morning here on the
homestead.  Rodney is asleep in bed with his bedroom light on -
evidence that he tried to get up and play before the cool & cozy
morning got the best of him.  Here in our living room, I write over a
gentle buzz and gurgle of a new device Marissa installed in the fish
tank.  The device is round and matte black, like a blackberry phone.
It's mounted to the side of the tank.  It casts a sinister red glow.
Marissa explained that the warm, glowing red pocket is supposed to
encourage the algae in the tank to consolidate there.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-22-red.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 22 red" src="/images/2021-02-22-red.jpg"/>
</a>
<figcaption>
<p>"I'm afraid I can't do that for you, Obb."</p>
</figcaption>
</figure>

Marissa was self-conscious about the sound at first, but I reassured
her that the sound kind of reminds me of those relaxing white noise
YouTube videos I fall asleep to sometimes.  Plus, we plan to move the
operation into a bigger tank in the near future.  Marissa explained
that bigger tanks are actually easier.  With a big tank, you can run a
line to a secret compartment underneath which pulls tank water through
the filter, protein skimmer, and this new algae compartment.  Plus,
the current makes the tank more fun to swim in if you are a fish.

_Sip_.  How was the weekend.  Are you feeling rejuvenated?  Thoroughly
relaxed?  This weekend, I wasted no time in getting as relaxed as
possible.  I'm anticipating a pretty hellish two week stint on ticket
duty, so this weekend was my calm before the storm.  I watched lots of
YouTube.  I hacked on some code.  I napped through the entire Sunday
afternoon snow storm.  Before I fell asleep, I climbed into bed and
read a few more chapters of the Recker immigrant book.

With the book, Marissa and I keep noticing these strange coincidences
and similarities.  There are touch points where the lives of these
Reckers and our Recker family seem to intersect.  For example, I was
telling Marissa about an event they called _The Great Rat Massacre_.
Pete Zwier's neighbor had a wood pile in his yard that had become
infested with rats, and he asked if he could borrow Pete's two rat
terriers, Rocky and Junie.  So the entire family came over.  The kids
drank fresh lemonade and ate cookies while Pete and his neighbor
prepared for the big hunt.  The family had never had a rat problem, so
they were excited to find if their beloved pets had the rat killing
instinct.  They did.  The book goes into great detail on how the kids
helped shew the rats out of the pile so Rocky or Junie could grab it
by the back of the neck and shake it.  When it was all over, they
picked up a hundred dead rats around the yard.

By comparison, our family's [Great Rat Massacre] wasn't nearly as
bloody.  I didn't have two rat terriers to assist me.  Working by
myself with a shovel, I only managed to claim about two dozen.  But
we're responsible for the name _Recker_ appearing in a local newspaper
article about killing rats, and so the legacy lives on.

[Great Rat Massacre]: https://www.alexrecker.com/2020-08-22.html

Other big news - thinking about getting our new puppy very soon,
Marissa and I have changed from "dizzy" to "minnie".  The name "dizzy"
sounds just a little too similar to "ziggy", and plus "minnie" is a
nice homage to the ancestor I'm reading about.  Marissa and I saw
eye-to-eye, but Rodney had concerns.

"But I want _dizzy_," he griped while eating lunch.  "I like her."

"We're still getting one of those puppies, we're just changing the
name," I said.

"No," insisted Rodney.  "Dada, not Minnie.  I want _Dizzy_."

"It's just the name, honey," said Marissa.  "Same dog - different
name."

I jumped in again.  "It's like how 'Rodney' is your name.  We could
have picked anything.  We could have called you _fart face_, but you
would still be you."

Rodney scowled.  "Hey, I'm not _fart face_!"

This weekend, Rodney and Marissa built a paper mache volcano.  They
filled an old cardboard box with crumpled up paper.  Using more paper
soaked in glue, they formed a hill around the paper, using an empty 2
liter bottle of diet coke for the spout.  They painted it an ashy
grey, and created a neat dry lava effect with a glue gun.

The sad thing is I think Rodney was so caught up in decorating it that
he forgot about the inevitable explosion.  He watched TV with the
volcano beside him on the couch, which is an honor he only gives to
his favorite new toys.  To further complicate things, he stuffed some
of his toys inside.  Marissa and I confirmed last night with a
flashlight that when the volcano erupts this week, it may also spew
out the new jacks set I bought him at Hy-Vee last Friday.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-22-volcano.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 22 volcano" src="/images/2021-02-22-volcano.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Rodney's jacks set was all over the house this weekend.  While Marissa
and I were finishing up Sunday breakfast, I was fiddling with the
included bouncy ball against the dining room table.  Without warning,
I stood up and threw it at the wall ahead.  It hit a small window pane
above our coffee bar and shattered.  Without a word, Marissa shuffled
away to grab the dustpan.  I followed after her groveling.

That window I broke was probably original with the house.  It's been
sitting in that window frame for a hundred years, undisturbed.  It saw
the birth of a nation, a developing frontier, and two world wars.  And
then some asshole in his Sunday robe swiftly ends its life with a
bouncy ball.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-22-window.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 22 window" src="/images/2021-02-22-window.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

"You're chump of the week," growled Marissa.

How can I argue with that?  I'm chump of the week.  Thanks for
stopping by today, everyone.  Have yourself a great week.
