---
title: megan's wedding 1
banner: 2021-06-25.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everyone.  Happy Friday.  My clock says it's 11:08 PM.
I'm in a double bed room of the American Inn in lovely Hutchinson
Minnesota, and I'm thankful that the sound of the air conditioner is
drowning out Mile's uncomfortable whimpering, Rodney's impromptu
story-telling, and Minnie's loud cardboard box crunching.  I'll be
frank about it, readers.  These are cramped quarters, and Marissa and
I have been brought to the brink of frustration trying to step over
all the warm bodies in this tiny hotel room.  But at last, things are
starting to quiet and I've managed to carve out just enough time for a
wedding weekend update.

_Sip_.  Aside from the cramped quarters for our massive family,
American Inn has been awesome.  Rodney ensures that each walk to take
the dogs out, refill ice, or throw something in the garbage down the
hall becomes an adventure.  The other night, the two of us wandered
around the entire building, which didn't take long because it was only
two stories.  He didn't know why, but I asked him to stop in the
middle of the hallway, turn towards and the camera, and say "Come play
with me," in the fitting style of _The Shining_.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-exploring.jpg">
    <img alt="exploring" src="/images/2021-06-25-exploring.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

The people here are so nice.  All Minnesotans, especially the good
people here in Hutchinson, have been remarkably nice.  Eerily nice.
Suspiciously nice.  If I didn't know about "Minnesota niceness" from
being married to Marissa, I would grow to suspect these people
sweeping up Miles' crumbs with a gentle smile on their face were
robots or cyborgs.  Minnesota leads the nation - nay, the world - in
niceness.  It's just a different league here.

We got into Hutchinson yesterday at 3:50 PM.  We were supposed to be
at the wedding rehearsal by 4 PM.  So instead of first checking in at
the hotel, we just went straight to the barn where the ceremony would
be held.  To celebrate our success in being ten minutes early, I
pulled some wicked donuts in the parking lot.

We'd check in later and meet up with the rest of the party for dinner.
While Rodney ran in circles around his relatives and Miles tottled
around in the big open country club, Marissa and I got to know
Justin's parents.  She and Jean discussed art, and her husband Mike
and I discussed _shlepping_ art.  He also divulged to me his out of
control obsession with guitars.

"I only have a few," explained Mike.  I cracked a smile, mentally
counting the ten or eleven guitars he rattled off.  "That's more than
a few Mike," I teased.

"It's more like fifty."  Mike wasn't kidding.  He showed me a video
fly-over of his guitar wall.  Jazz guitars, hallow bodies, twelve
strings, Fender stratocasters.  He even told me about a
_frankin-strat_ he was building from the ground up.

All the while, Miles just rolled around on the floor.  He tugged on my
pant legs.  He whined for Marissa.  This trip has revealed just how
much of a COVID baby Miles is.  It doesn't take much to throw him off
and put him in an irreversibly bad mood.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-baby-on-the-green.jpg">
    <img alt="baby-on-the-green" src="/images/2021-06-25-baby-on-the-green.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Free baby, pick him up on the eighteen hole.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Getting back to the hotel, we were still ravenous from a day of
driving.  Rodney saw a side of his parents that was new to him - the
way we devour a Domino's pizza after checking into a hotel.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-dominos.jpg">
    <img alt="dominos" src="/images/2021-06-25-dominos.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Rodney and I went swimming all morning.  The hotel pool is right
around the corner, and we had the whole place to ourselves.  Rodney
still doesn't know how to swim, but we have enough fun just throwing
each other around the pool.  Rodney, a tiny framed four year old,
flies pretty high once he gets the nerve.  "But don't let me touch the
ceiling," he warned.  "I could _die_."  At least he has safety
standards - one of us should.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-pool.jpg">
    <img alt="pool" src="/images/2021-06-25-pool.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Somebody call Sports Illustrated.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

We escaped for a quick lunch at a family diner.  Since our roadside
breakfast fiasco in Ohio, Marissa and I now have trust issues with
country style diners.  She ordered a redemption Belgian waffle, and
her homeland didn't disappoint with hospitality.

We met up at the bowling alley in town.  We split up into a bumper
team and a no-bumper team.  The beer flowed.  A rock music fueled
feast of tater tots and wings ensued.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-bowling.jpg">
    <img alt="bowling" src="/images/2021-06-25-bowling.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-bowling-marissa.jpg">
    <img alt="bowling-marissa" src="/images/2021-06-25-bowling-marissa.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

My bowling luck unexpectedly caught fire.  In our second game, I
racked up my first turkey and a handful of other strikes and spares.
I was slated to score over two hundred.  The pressure got to me, and I
shanked the last two frames.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-25-score.jpg">
    <img alt="score" src="/images/2021-06-25-score.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Story of my life, but still a personal best.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

It was a long, full day.  Marissa and I were so tired, we went
catatonic as soon as we shut the hotel door behind us.  Tomorrow is
the wedding ceremony.  We'll be back at the barn first thing tomorrow,
after several cups of coffee of course.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Friday.
