---
title: genealogy, silos, and hockey night
banner: 2021-02-10.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody!  Happy Wednesday.  If we were in the same
room, I'd offer to clink coffee mugs with you to commemorate the
halfway point in the work week.

Speaking of being in the same room, we heard some exciting news from
our doctor.  After raising a baby in secret for the last nine months,
our pediatrician gave the all-clear for contact visits from vaccinated
family members.  Our doctor still recommends masks and sanitizer, but
this is pretty huge for us.  This is the first time the recommendation
has budged since Miles was born, and for our family it's a much needed
pinhole of light at the end of this pandemic tunnel.  Now about this
vaccine... what's the hold-up?

One of the panelists in a podcast we listen to pitched, "Why are we
even bothering with places like Walgreen's?  Why can't the army just
set up a tent and start handing them out?"  I felt the frustration,
and it was worsened by the recent memory of super bowl ads.  At this
point in the pandemic, any kind of corporate messaging just feels a
little tasteless.  _Stop for a life saving vaccine, and while you're
here don't forget our two for one special on Diet Coke._

Hang in there, everyone.  The dawn is nigh.  Looking ahead, I see a
bright future where this _thing_ is well behind us.  Of course by
_thing_, I mean the "we're in this together" type of commercials.
They are the worst, aren't they?

_Sip_.  I'm running behind schedule a bit, and as a result I've
cheated myself out about ten minutes of writing time.  This kind of
distraction usually comes from reddit and twitter, but this morning
the source is genealogy.  The book about my Recker family ancestors
arrived yesterday.  In quick reading sessions between work, exercise
on the stationary bike, and in the evening just before bed, I've
already plowed through four chapters.  Throughout my morning routine,
I've been distracted by googling names, reading obituaries, and
clicking through scans of old newspapers.  I think I've been
officially bitten by the genealogy bug.

At face value, the oldness of my family's stories is interesting.  I
read about what coming to America was like at the turn of the 20th
century.  I read about how the homes didn't have electricity or
bathtubs.  Maybe credit is due to the story-telling, but what's really
captivating about these stories is in how relatable these ancestors
were.  They felt familiar, like family.

The book describes Ahlrich Recker, my great-great grandfather, waxing
poetic about his favorite painting _The Milkmaid_.  He praises the
artist for so deftly capturing the plain beauty of daily work - how
the artist made an ordinary milkmaid look so angelic.  He felt the
painting resonated with his love of balance, routine, and taking pride
in even the most menial of tasks.  Ahlrich made wagons and baby
strollers by trade, and he etched his initials _AR_ on each one.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-02-10-the-milk-maid.jpg">
<img alt="2021 02 10 the milk maid" src="/images/2021-02-10-the-milk-maid.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

And then when he was finished bragging about the painting, his wife
answered with "Who do you think you are, some kind of art critic?"

There's another story about how the family used to read a psalm or
another passage from the Bible when they finished eating at the dinner
table.  When the reading was done, all the kids were expected to
remember the last word read - a clever incentive to ensure they were
listening.  Over a hundred years later, my family would be doing the
same thing at our dinner table.  My sister Kelly was always much
better at remembering the last word.  I was frustrated by the game
because I felt I _was_ listening, even if I didn't happen to catch
what the last word was.

The author tells a story about a time they were reading after dinner.
They read a passage out of Song of Songs that mentioned _breasts like
fawns_ while comparing the church to a young bride.  The boys, Dick
and Bill, snickered and exchanged their own theories about where the
breasts were hidden at their church.  Their mother grew upset and
lectured them, but she was undermined when Ahlrich himself couldn't
resist joking about it.  "What?  It's in the Bible," he said.  "How
can we forbid this kind of talk?"

Yesterday was a quiet day, but I can feel a quiet storm brewing at
work.  To be honest, these days our team feels too small to keep up
with all our diverse responsibilities.  Fielding questions on slack,
maintaining our services, jumping in on outages, all while trying to
develop the next generation of tools our engineers work with.

I've been in a silo this week.  A _silo_ is the term we use in
software to describe when someone is working on something big all by
themselves, and the knowledge doesn't really go anywhere.  It just
accumulates in a dark, impenetrable vessel, like a silo.  I'm building
a copy of one of the services we have in a new environment.  The
ticket has flipped from "DONE" back to "IN PROGRESS" several times.
Every time I feel like I'm close, I hit another roadblock.  It might
be an unforeseen problem or a mechanism that I built two years ago and
forgot about.

At the moment it feels like each of us on the team are in a silo.
This kind of thing happens when the ratio of engineers to important
priorities approaches one-to-one.  Everyone takes a _number one_
priority and sees it through.  Everyone in their own silos.

I'm feeling hopeful today.  I have another full day with zero
meetings, and that's plenty of time to wrap this thing up for good.
Maybe today my ticket will move to DONE and stay there, and I'll be
free to find another silo to climb into.

Yesterday was hockey night.  Rodney put on his Kaner jersey, Marissa
put on her hoodie, but I once again struck out on expressing my own
hockey fandom.  My t shirt was still in the wash.  On swag selection
week, I should have went with something that was a little more
re-usable, like a sweatshirt or a jersey.

The hawks had a rocky start in the first period.  The offense wasn't
clicking, we couldn't control the puck, and there were numerous sloppy
turnovers in the neutral zone.  We came to a consensus that I was to
blame for the _bad juju_.  But we turned it around.  It took until
overtime, but we swept the Dallas Stars in a double header.  Nice job,
hawks.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day, everyone.
