---
title: a surprise day off, normal sick days, and a thousand dollars
banner: 2021-02-23.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Tuesday.  Happy second day of the work
week.  Here in sunny Madison Wisconsin, the sidewalk is wet and
glistening with melted snow.  Cripes, I think I even hear birds
outside.  I took the garbage out last night, and I noticed how warm
the air felt.  It was probably still in the twenties, but just the
mere fact that I could stand outside in my flip-flops without wincing
in pain bodes well for the spring.  Wearing just a t-hirt and flip
flops, I was almost tempted to take a short walk up the street.

I hear it's also getting warmer in Texas.  It's good to hear that the
weird snowy cold spell has left.  Texas doesn't wear snow well, does
it?  I was chatting with my cousin Dina about it on Instagram.  She
told me about how some of their neighbors are getting back five figure
electric bills.  The pipes were freezing.  Their infrastructure just
wasn't built for that weather.  My thoughts jumped to when we put in
our backyard fence when we first moved in.  The wooden posts need to
be dug past the frost line, which in Wisconsin is a whole three extra
feet.  I remember thinking at the time, _I bet they don't to dig
fences this deep in Texas_.

_Sip_.  So how is the week going?  Probably not as good as mine is.  I
have a day off work today, and to be honest I totally forgot about it
until this past Sunday.

"Are you doing anything on the 23rd?" I asked Marissa as we were
getting ready for bed.  She paused and thought for a moment.

"Uh, yeah," she said.  "I have that Instagram live interview."

"I think I took of work for it," I said.

"You took off work?  Just for that?" she laughed.

"Yep," I said.  "So needless to say, I'll be around if you want help."

Her interview is with a guy named Aaron Jack who talks to other
artists and content creators on Instagram.  It's at 12PM CST today.
If you can, take a long lunch and listen in.  I took a whole day off
for this, and you don't want that to go to waste, do you?

The real reason I took a day off is because I knew I would forget
about it.  It was like a gift to my future self.  Being at the
beginning of a new sprint and in the middle of ticket duty, it might
be difficult to stop thinking about work, but I'll do my best.

So right now the plan is to finish writing and let Rodney and Marissa
sleep in.  Maybe I'll get Rodney up first and play a few rounds of
Street Fighter with him while I finish my coffee.

Marissa needs her sleep.  She started to develop a little throat
tickle yesterday.  She's not in any pain, but the anticipation and
uncertainty about whether or not is COVID is rough on her.  We'll
probably know for sure this morning.  When Marissa's sister got COVID,
she tested positive with the same symptoms of a regular head cold.  My
sister was exposed but remained a-symptomatic.  It would make sense to
me if your body's reaction to COVID runs in the family.  Maybe I have
COVID too, who knows?

Last night, I made Marissa take a seat on the couch.  I made her a cup
of tea, and without warning I added a shot of cognac.  We reminisced
about sick days - the regular kind.

For me, a sick day meant spending the whole day on the couch in my
parents' sunny reading room.  Thanks to my mother, I had an endless
supply of ice water, Gatorade, and cheese and crackers.  I'd power
cylce my brain, falling asleep during one daytime Adam Sandler movie
and waking up during another.  Is it weird to miss even normal sick
days?

Out of curiosity, I perused some entries from around this time last
year.  This week, we were getting ready to move out of our house to
get our floors redone.  We'd stay at an AirBNB in our own town.  It
appears we had another full week of normal life.  Officially, the last
non quarantine thing we did as a family was having Rafael and Miguel
from Dublin office over for dinner.  The next day, March 7 2020, I was
instructed to stay at home, and I haven't been in the office since.

I said this on [March 12 of last year]:

> "I bet this is how we transition into like what you see in sci-fi
> movies, where everyone remotes into everything and we just stay in
> our houses most of the time."

[March 12 of last year]: https://www.alexrecker.com/2020-03-12.html

That was supposed to be a hyperbole.  It's hardly science fiction -
that's real life!  Only a year later, and now everything is pretty
much remote by default, and that aspect of life is definitely not as
glamorous as it comes off in movies.

This entry has been a bit too morose, so how about we end on a high
note recapping some classic Rodney shenanigans.  Rodney has learned
the words _hundred_ and _thousand_.  For a kid who can't count past
thirty, the words _hundred_ and _thousand_ are powerful.  When he says
them, he uses his whole body to enunciate the syllables.  _HUN-DRED_.
_THOOOW-SAND_.

Rodney has also commandeered Baby Miles' toy phone from him.  Rodney
took the play phone into his room for imaginary phone calls.  Even at
the time of writing things, I can hear the toy rotary phone rattling
upstairs in his bedroom.

Yesterday I cracked open Rodney's door to see if he had fallen asleep
during quiet time.  He locked eyes with me, holding the phone against
his shoulder.  I had interrupted a very serious pretend phone call.

"Dada," he said.  "_wanna wanna..._ DINOSAUR says you need to give me
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS."

Not wanting to throw off the comedic magic, I joined his bit without
hesitation.

"How much time do I have?" I asked.

"Right now," said Rodney.

"Right now?" I whined.  "A thousand clams?  A thousand bones?  A
thousand dead green presidents?"

"No dada," said Rodney shaking his head.  "Dollars."

Thanks for stopping by today.  If you see my sister Sarah around, wish
her a happy birthday.  Happy birthday, Sarah.  To everyone else, have
a wonderful Tuesday.
