---
title: hot-dog pizza, wet burritos, and mark the mason
banner: 2021-05-21.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Friday, everyone.  We made it.  Let's make a pact - today at
five we're all shutting off our computers, chucking our phones in the
corner of the room, and taking a long nap.  Maybe even the dangerous
kind of nap where you don't set an alarm.  That kind of nap is not for
the faint of heart.  Are you prepared to wake up at 7 PM?  8 PM?  1
AM?  Sometime around Saturday lunch?  I say live dangerously, and pay
back the sleep debt with reckless abandon.

It's good to be here on this clear Friday morning.  We've got a busy
work day ahead of us.  I got back-to-back action all morning, so
Marissa and Rodney are going to pick up the groceries from Hy-Vee.  A
sloppy, scatter-brained grocery list penned on the back of an envelope
awaits them on the dining room table.  But knowing those two, they
will come back with lots of things that _aren't_ on the list too.

_Sip_.  I usually do a pretty good job taking pictures.  I've made it
a habit of taking my phone out for quick snapshots to capture all the
silly happenings around the house.  The pictures help me remember all
the things we did, and it's easier to write about.  Each morning
before writing I check Marissa's Google Photos page too, picking out
my favorites.

Yesterday, we utterly dropped the ball.  The only photo I took was of
this freakish Chicago dog themed slice of pizza.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-21-pizza.jpg">
    <img alt="pizza" src="/images/2021-05-21-pizza.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

You can almost feel my enthusiasm as I was about to dive into this
meal.  That enthusiasm would quickly dissipate.  It wasn't life
changing, nor offensive.  This specialty slice was kind of a one-time
thing.  I felt the same way about the Thanksgiving pizza with turkey,
cranberries, and stuffing.  I felt the same way about the _macadilla_
pizza with macaroni and cheese arranged around a quesadilla melted on
top.  Same goes for the ravioli pizza, the barbecue brisket tater tot
pizza, and the chicken alfredo pizza.  They all have the same effect
of putting a bunch of different flavored jelly beans in your mouth.

If you ask me, the correct way to enjoy Ian's pizza is a single, fresh
slice of pepperoni on two paper plates.  Don't even sit down or order
anything else with it.  Just fold it in half long-ways and eat it
quickly, like you are trying to cover up a crime.

I'm a little too hard on Ian's.  The chicago dog pizza wasn't so
forgettable.  I appreciated the neon relish and the sport peppers.
Knowing how many of those I can eat right out of the jar, it would be
hypocritical to turn my nose up at eating them off a pizza.  What's
the difference, it's all just food anyway!

Marissa also struck out in the pictures department.  The only thing in
her Google Photos account from yesterday was a picture of a mural on
the wall at the new Mexican restaurant we tried for lunch.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-21-burrito.jpg">
    <img alt="burrito" src="/images/2021-05-21-burrito.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

This frightening image depicts a man trying to hold onto a burrito as
it sprays out the back.  This place boasted their burritos were
delicious but "hard to hold onto".  They were half right.  Trying to
wolf down my steak burrito, I looked a lot like the poor guy in the
painting, but the spectacle wasn't as impressive.  I didn't have a
burrito exploding out the back with flavor.  Just a sopping wet
tortilla and a plate pooling with water.  Tomato water.  Beef water.
Lettuce water.  I didn't know you could make a burrito with _that_
much water in it.  It offends me thinking about how this is
intentional - that some restaurateur on the other side of town tried
this sopping wet burrito and thought _This is it, this is my gimmick.
I'm the place that makes the wet burritos that fall apart_.

But enough about our questionable food choices.  In other news, we're
getting some work done around the house.  We're getting our
tuck-pointing completely redone.  The funny thing is we didn't set up
an appointment.  Marissa and I didn't even know the outside of our
house was going to get a facelift this week, or at all.  On Tuesday,
our neighbor Mark crossed the street, and politely asked us if he
could fix it up.  The metal teeth of his buzz saw screamed.  His
hammer and chisel rattled the walls.  By the time we brought Mark a
plate of lunch, he was ashen white from dust and rock.  I don't know
how much a project like this would cost, but I have a feeling it's
more than a beer and a plate of leftovers.

Why would Mark do all this for us?  He's a good neighbor, sure, but
this is Wisconsin.  Everyone is a good neighbor.  I think the truth is
that Mark is an artist.  He's the same mason that the city hired to do
the stone work around the capitol building in the center of town.  A
few weeks ago while chatting in our driveway, he noticed the brick on
the side of our house.  He tried to avoid looking at it,
absent-mindedly picking at it with his finger.  He finally addressed
what he couldn't ignore.

"Did... _you_ do this?" he asked Marissa.  Marissa nodded, rushing to
an explanation.

"It was like the _first_ thing I did," she said.  "The inspector
mentioned it when we bought our house, so I tried it.  Is it... bad?"
she asked sweetly.

Mark pursed his lips and sighed.  "It's just... it's terrible," he
said with sadness.  "The colors... they don't even match."

I can picture what Mark was probably doing on that Tuesday morning
before he talked to us.  I bet he was standing in his driveway staring
across the street, fixated on the little imperfections between the
bricks in our house.  I picture him pining after it the way Gatsby
stared at the green light on Daisy's dock.  He could only take staring
at that shoddy stone work across the street for so long before he had
to do something about it.

I know something about artists.  When they get fixated on something,
it's best to get out of their way.  Just be appreciative.  Give them
space to realize their vision.  Most importantly, keep bringing them
beer.  Mark is a cheap date.  "I drink reg'lar ol' Bud," he says with
a twang.  "Or anything that kinda' tastes like Bud."

Thank God for neighbors like Mark.  Have a great Friday, everyone.
