---
title: cocktail shrimp, riots, and rubber dinosaurs
banner: 2021-01-07.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Thursday.  It's a nice morning today.
With so many political events unfolding this winter I've forgotten to
take breaks from it just to look outside.  Through it all, we've had a
beautiful winter.  For the past couple of nights, we've gotten a small
dusting of snow - just enough to cover all the foot prints.  Every
morning some fog from the lakes has rolled over the city.  It doesn't
get any cooler than fog in the winter time.  Make sure you remember to
shut off the news every once in a while and stare outside.

I'm feeling good today.  I've got a long quiet morning ahead of me,
and an afternoon sprinkled with some very casual meetings with people.
After work I'm going to go for a run.  We're making tacos for dinner.
Marissa and I have spontaneously decided to re watch _The Last Dance_.
Here's to keeping things low key heading into the weekend.

_Sip_.  Yesterday was a crazy day, huh?  Before all that nonsense
started up at the capitol, it was a pretty regular morning.  We had a
great work meeting.  I was slugging coffee and cranking through my
to-do list.  In typical Wednesday fashion, I stepped away from the
computer a little early for lunch so I could prepare something
special.  With Marissa napping on the couch and Rodney zoning out to
some Paw Patrol, I decided to make a little platter of fried chicken
to go with lunch.

Leftover from this week's chicken were two wings and two drumsticks.
Without even knowing what we'd do with them, on Tuesday I padded them
dry with a paper towel, applied salt, and left them in the back of the
fridge.  I've learned that when it comes to chicken, salting it and
leaving it in the fridge to dry out is almost always a good move.
That's how to get the skin really crispy and the fat to render out.

Marissa and Rodney followed the sounds and smells to the table.  Along
with chicken we had a bevy of other stored away half eaten foods to
reheat and feast upon.  By the time we had finished lunch, the food
re-use high was in full force and the dopamine was washing over me.

After lunch I hopped over to Hy-Vee for a quick grocery run.  Seeing
they hired a new guy instantly put into perspective
the... _ahem_... creative food substitution choices in our grocery
order.  I ordered one bunch of cilantro for taco night.  It was marked
out of stock, and I was just given a bunch of parsley instead.  I also
ordered a pound of shell-on raw shrimp from the meat counter - marked
out of stock, and substituted with of all things a platter of cooked
cocktail shrimp (tartar sauce included).

_I give up_, I thought.  _We're just eating cocktail shrimp and
parsley for dinner - what's the point?_

Hy-Vee works in mysterious ways.  Maybe due to some spiritual
connection we share, they knew that I'd return home with groceries to
find that our nation's capitol had been breached by _Stop the Steal_
protestors and that I would be grateful to have a chilled platter of
cocktail shrimp to stress eat while watching the whole mess unfold.
For the next hour, Marissa and I were glued to the dining room
computer.  CNN's live coverage blared into the dining room.

By the time we got to the story, the protestors had already ripped
down the fence, kicked open a door, and made their way into the
capitol.  I couldn't help but laugh watching them wander around in the
capitol building.  Once they were in, it appeared that they didn't
know what to do.  At first the rioters just looked like tourists.
They walked the hallways, following the guard rails quietly taking
videos with their phones out.  They snooped through offices and desks.
They reminded me of what I do in a video game when I'm not sure how to
advance to the next level.

It was a weird news day.  After they evacuated all the
representatives, the national guard finally showed up and quietly
ushered everyone away.  All that was left was coverage of an empty
capitol building.  My twitter feed was full of surreal pictures of
grizzly outdoorsmen meandering the capitol building with confederate
flags.  There was a guy with a classic _drunk uncle_ look with his
boots up on Nancy Pelosi's desk.  There was a photo of this hairy
snowboarder type guy flashing a smarmy grin at the camera while he
left with the press podium.  I bet this morning there's an FBI agent
searching through new ebay and craigslist listings as we speak.

"Oh no!" yelled Rodney, covering his mouth.  "Dada, is the _medicine_
in there?"

"Oh no, dude," I said.  "They have that somewhere safe.  Don't worry,
the medicine is fine."  Rodney's ability to connect the two events was
sobering.

Our family was feeling down about the whole thing.  Out of an unspoken
need to cheer each other up, we gathered in the kitchen while I made
paella.  Miles noisily bounced up and down in his swing.  Marissa sat
on the floor with her sketch pad with the dogs snuggling in the
creases of her folded legs.  Rodney busily fluttered between us
throwing his dinosaurs around the room.

"Don't mind us, dada," said Marissa.  "Your entire family is just
trying to get in your way as much as possible."

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-07-in-the-way.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 07 in the way" src="/images/2021-01-07-in-the-way.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

We listened to Taylor Swift's _Lover_, which has weirdly made a strong
resurgence in my music selection.

After dinner I flopped onto the couch to run through my Dutch lesson.
Rodney interrupted me, dropping all seven of his rubber dinosaurs right
on my face.

"Hey, dude," I said, setting down my phone.  "Run me through what each
of their names are again."  I held up the first dinosaur.

"That's baby dinosaur," said Rodney pointing to the ragged figure in
my hand.  Baby dinosaur is the original rubbery dinosaur.  His jaw is
slack and lopsided from being slung around the room like a slingshot.
He's also the smallest in the pack, making him the _baby_.

"This one?" I said continuing.

"Giant T-Rex," said Rodney.

"Or _GTR_ for short," I added.  "And how about these two?"

"That's _skwanky_," said Rodney.  "And this is _skronky_."  Rodney
took _skwanky_ out of my hand, moving his jaw.  "SKWANK SKWANK," he
screeched.  I see now where he got his name.

"And this guy?" I said, holding out a long necked green dinosaur.

"That's Pete," said Rodney.  The simple _Pete_ caught me off guard and
I began to chortle.  Rodney snatched Pete out of my hand and threw him
across the room.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-07-dinosaurs.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 07 dinosaurs" src="/images/2021-01-07-dinosaurs.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day everyone.
