---
title: beschuiten, midwestern techincal writing, and tarantulas
banner: 2021-06-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Happy Friday, everyone.  Let me congratulate you on reaching the end
of the work week - it feels good, doesn't it?  At quitting time today,
you had better put work away, dig your _ray beezies_ out of the pile
of toys in your room, and head outside for a long walk.

That's right, folks.  We officially usher in _ray beezies_ season.
Rodney busted these out for yesterday's family walk.  I think it's a
small miracle that Rodney was able to find them.  Over the past week,
I've seen them outside in the grass, at the bottom of his shoe bin,
and rolling around on the living room floor with puzzle pieces and
torn up dog toys.

_Sip_.  So happy Friday.  How are you feeling today?  What are you
eating for breakfast these days?

Remember I psyched Rodney into eating one of those Dutch biscuits we
got in the mail?  Well he's asked for one in the morning everyday
since.  And now he's got me hooked on them.  The two of us formed an
unofficial _beschuit_ eating club, and we convene for exactly five
minutes every day in the morning before I start work.

Look, we're newcomers to this whole _beschuiten_ thing.  Rodney asks
for peanut butter and jelly on his.  I use a little spoonful of jelly,
a squirt of honey, or sometimes a scoop of apple sauce.  We have no
cultural reference point for how to enjoy these things, but so far we
haven't found anything that tastes repulsive when smeared on a
_beschuit_.  I wonder what's next - chocolate syrup?  A slice of
cheese?  A pork chop?

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-04-beschuiten.jpg">
    <img alt="beschuiten" src="/images/2021-06-04-beschuiten.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>The beschuiten gang doesn't apologize for innovating.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Yesterday was a great day.  I'm having one of those weeks where all
the work emergencies have died down, and it's given me a lot of free
time.  Seeing that I'm on ticket duty next week, I decided to lean
into the lull and use the time for personal learning.  I spent
yesterday morning taking part one of a free course on Technical
Writing produced by Google.

Here's a funny story.  I'm not sure why, but I expected the course to
be a video.  I clicked on the first page and instinctively scrolled
past the wall of text looking for a big red play button.  I felt
disappointed.  I was looking forward to kicking back with a cup of
coffee and passively taking in some helpful information, but those
bastards had to go and make me read something.

The course was better than I expected.  They loaded the material with
jokes and puns, and that kept me interested enough to pull out some
gems to apply to my own writing.  For example, I tend to use passive
voice when I'm recounting something technical that happened, like when
I'm documenting an outage or filing a long bug report.  But the course
made a lot of good arguments for why technical writers should abandon
that practice in _all_ contexts.  Passive writing obscures
information.  It tricks the brain into focusing on the wrong words.  A
lot of scientific journals have abandoned the convention anyway.

But one area of my technical writing I will cling to is my use of
idioms.  The course made a lot of good arguments for why phrases like
_mum's the word_ and _par for the course_ have no place in technical
documentation.  Whoever drew that conclusion must have never been to
the Midwest.  Okie dokie.  Kick the tires.  Let 'er rip.  These aren't
just extra toppings we add to our explanations, Google.  They're
hard-wired in our brains.  When I bump into somebody and say _OPE_,
that's coming straight from my reptilian brain stem and I couldn't
stop it if I tried.

Better idea, Google.  Just fold Midwestern idioms into your course.
They should teach these as standard transition between technical
topics.  Wouldn't it be more fun if our manuals said things like _and
this TCP packet's gonna squeeze right by da firewall 'der because da
sysadmin wants to keep 'er movin'_?

In other news, I've been getting a lot of joy from taking walks.  I
take Ziggy for a walk around the block after lunch, and yesterday I
took Ollie down the nature path.  With their new sister Minnie getting
so much attention, I think Ollie and Ziggy appreciate the alone time.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-04-walks.jpg">
    <img alt="walks" src="/images/2021-06-04-walks.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

We went for a walk as a family too.  After work, we took Miles and
Rodney up the street.  Marissa ran into our friendly neighborhood
liquor store.  Miles, Rodney, and I hung around outside.  A woman sat
on the curb while her boyfriend did the same, and naturally Rodney
talked to her.

"These are my _Ray Beezies_," he said, tipping his dark sunglasses
down on his nose.

"Cool, kid," said the woman.  "I have some Ray Bands too.  I just
don't have them with me."

I smiled to myself.  How funny that she knew exactly what he was
talking about?  No clarification for _ray beezies_ required.

Rodney jumped to the next topic.  "I likes spiders."

"Do you?  I'm from Hawaii," she said.  "And the spiders we got there
are like _this_ big."  She held her hands in front of her, as if she
were holding a basket ball or a dinner plate.  "Do you like
tarantulas?"

Rodney shrugged, and shook his head.  The woman smiled.  "Yeah,
they're pretty scary," she said.  She stood to her feet and followed
her boyfriend to their parked car.  "Nice talking to you, kid."

We followed up on it later.  Rodney didn't know the word _tarantula_.
"A tarantula is a spider," I explained.

"Oh, like a _Rodney spider_," said Rodney pointing to his rubber
tarantula toy on the ground.  "I do like tarantulas!"

I nodded.  What a missed opportunity.  If he had known, the two of
them could have probably talked tarantulas until the sun went down.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great day, everyone.
