---
title: my bare calendar, the nantucket airport, and ninja life
banner: 2021-05-04.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

I'm utterly baffled right now.  Is this a mistake?  Is today some kind
of work holiday that I don't know about?  My work calendar is bare.  I
don't have a single meeting all day.  I don't _think_ I was fired in
the middle of the night, because my VPN still connects and I have
meetings sprinkled through the rest of the week.  I think sometimes
everything works out, and nobody needs you for an entire day.  It's so
unusual for me to have an empty calendar day like this that moments
ago I accepted an invite to an optional town hall to kick off a new
quarter, just because I was uncomfortable with how naked my calendar
looked.

What a gift.  I have to be careful here.  As we all know, when you go
from having several meetings in a day to all of the sudden having
zero, sometimes the shock can be too much for the human body.  Like a
pilot quickly ascending in a jet plane, I fear all these sensations of
freedom and independence might cause all the blood to rush out of my
head and into my feet.  I just might black out at my desk.  Stay calm,
everyone.  Take it slow.  Just breathe.  Remember your training.

I'm grateful for the extra time today.  I joke, but there's truth to
being measured and realistic with what to do with all this working
time.  There's a number of things I've been wanting to catch up on
around the virtual office.  Let's see how far I get today.

_Sip_.  Happy Tuesday everyone.  We've already burned a whole day -
this week can't be so bad, right?  We had a swell Monday.  Not the
wildest or most imaginative day (the ongoing cold drizzle saw to
that) - just swell.  I suppose it's telling that one of my highlights
happened on Twitter.  Buckle up, everyone, Alex has a riveting Twitter
story.

Our friend [Dr. Parks] was having a debate around some Theological
nerdery and happened to mention the Nantucket Airport.  The official
Nantucket Airport account swooped in, taking issue that they referred
to him as _the_ Nantucket Airport and not _The_ Nantucket Airport.
Nantucket is a small island off the coast of Massachusetts - of course
they're the only airport.  Seeing all the action, I shot him a text.

"Why was the Nantucket airport talking shit on theology twitter?" I
wrote.

Ben posted a screenshot of the text, and that got me in trouble too.
The moral of the story is The Nantucket Airport really cares about
that _T_ being capitalized, as they are the _only_ airport on
Nantucket.  It can't be easy running an airport on Nantucket island, I
say we just give this one to them.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-04-airport.png">
    <img alt="airport" src="/images/2021-05-04-airport.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>

[Dr. Parks]: https://benjaminparks.github.io/

Needless to say, twitter has crept back into my life.  I swore off the
stuff a few months ago, but the world was a little scarier back then.
These days my timeline is mostly just sports, tech, and more recently
professors getting clapped at by The Nantucket Airport.  Welcome back,
Twitter.  I've got my eye on you.

Back in the real world, we had a quiet day.  Rodney, still
over-relaxed from the weekend, was having a hard time dealing with the
rainy weather.  Starting from the moment I handed him his breakfast,
he protested being left alone.

"OK dude," I said, plunking down his plastic plate and juice in front
of him.  "Daddy has to go work now.  I'll see ya."

"Dada," said Rodney, waving to get my attention.  "Why don't you stay
here and work on _that_ computer."  He gestured over to my writing
Thinkpad charging at the coffee table.

"Oh, that's my _fun_ computer.  I need to go work on the boring
computer upstairs for a while," I replied.

Rodney wasn't finished.  "Wait," he said while flagging me down.  "Why
don't you take your boring computer downstairs in here, and then you
can work."

"But then how will I focus?" I asked.  "I need to be able to think and
talk to people."

"I'll be super quiet!" said Rodney, still defending his idea.

"Maybe another time," I smiled.

Rodney has been all about ninjas.  He's fashioned his own ninja gear
out of k'nex and he takes it with him everywhere.  He wears a rubber
k'nex tire around his wrist, a headband made from the chain to his
k'nex roller coaster set, a sword, a shield, and more recently a
utility belt.  I think what caused this ninja life renaissance was
when he stumbled onto a Ryan's World sing-a-long video where his
family dressed like ninjas.  _Ninja-ninja-fam-i-ly.
Ninja-ninja-fam-i-ly._  Rodney watches the video a few times a day,
jumping on the couch and enthusiastically singing along, just like he
used to sing a long to Blippi.

Sometimes kids are sick of being by themselves, and that's when your
patience is really tested.  Rodney tried to turn every coffee break
into a full blown sparring session.  He clambered around Marissa while
she tried to work on the computer.  In the morning, Marissa and I
exchanged a single, deflated smile that silently confided _I can't
wait to put this friggen kid to bed_.

I suppose we should also do a Miles update too, right?  Miles is a
simple little creature these days.  We've roped off the corner of the
living room with a plastic fence, and that has greatly simplified his
situation.  Miles is content to putter around in that fenced corner by
himself for most of the day.  He only gets into trouble when he tries
to stand.  He'll use the shelf or the bench to pull himself up onto
his wobbly legs, then realizing he can't lower himself back down to
the ground, he either shrieks for help or just tumbles to the ground
(and _then_ shrieks for help).

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-05-04-miles.jpg">
    <img alt="miles" src="/images/2021-05-04-miles.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Oh, and did I mention that tomorrow is his first birthday?</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Two Fridays from now marks two weeks from my second vaccine.  To
celebrate, we're taking the boys to Dave & Busters.  It's high time
that they make their ninja-fighting and shrieking somebody else's
problem.  Dave and Busters, I hope you're ready for us.  It's been a
long quarantine.

Thanks for stopping by today, everyone.  Happy Tuesday.
