---
title: football on nickelodeon, cheesy chicken, and fraud
banner: 2021-01-11.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, brave readers.  Happy Monday.  There's not much to get
excited about in what I consider _the dog days of winter_.  Every day
feels like it's overcast and thirty degrees.  It feels like we're
forever trapped in the limbo between quarantine and freedom, winter
and spring, the last President and the next President.  It's a weird
time for us on all kinds of fronts.

For all I know the existential dread I'm feeling this morning is just
a byproduct of staying up too late last night.  After buttoning up the
house and heading upstairs for the night, Marissa and I spontaneously
felt like staying up to share one more drink together.  I blame all
the great work she did with my bedroom office this weekend.  She
touched up the paint, patched up the holes left over from the old
shelving system, and hung my favorite paintings.  Now that corner of
our bedroom looks so inviting, I guess it would have felt like a crime
not to enjoy it for a little longer.

It's too early to be sure, but I think I'm going to make it.  The
coffee is hitting just right and I have very few meetings to worry
about.  I've cheated sleep before - I knew what I was getting into.

_Sip_.  So how about them Bears?  We played the Saints in the wildcard
round.  We went out of our way to watch the broadcast on Nickelodeon,
and by the look of it they went all out on the special effects.  They
had digital slime running all over the field.  For each flag, young
Sheldon popped up in the corner to explain the violation and make a
quip about how he'd rather be doing physics.  Rodney particularly
liked seeing friends such as Santiago and Chase from the Paw Patrol
sitting in the stands in the form of cardboard cutouts.

We enjoyed in game commentary like "Drew Beers and Taysom Hill are
kind of like Spongebob and Patrick."  There was a line about how David
Montgomery and Allen Robinson are the "CatDog" of the Bears offense.

In hindsight, it was probably a questionable decision picking a Bears
and Saints playoff game to debut for the first time on Nickelodeon.
After all, the last time our teams met in the regular season Javon
Wims was ejected for sucker punching Chauncy Gardener-Johnson.  With
even more on the line, this game went as you'd expect.  Not only did
Anthony Miller get ejected (and probably fired on the spot) for
punching Chauncy Gardener-Johnson, but the Nickelodeon broadcast also
caught a very crisp F bomb from Cordarrelle Patterson while drawing an
unsportsmanlike conduct penalty.  It was awkward - it was right after
they had just finished talking about his favorite flavor of icecream
too.  At any rate, the Bears season is over - out with a whimper - but
at least we have some hockey to watch starting Wednesday.

Yesterday's football was a letdown, but dinner wasn't.  I took another
stab at _Chicken Gaston Gerard_ last night.  Quick recap, the last
time I made this dish I spaced out and forgot to add the cream.  It
turns out that if you make this dish and remember all the ingredients,
it comes out delicious.  Rodney cleaned his plate and asked for
seconds before the dinner timer even warmed up.

"What's this called, dad?" he asked, pointing with his fork.

"Let's just call it... _cheesy chicken_," I replied, going with the
most kid friendly name that popped into my head.

Sitting at the dinner table, we had barely cut into our food when
Marissa's phone chirped with a text message.  She immediately looked
concerned.

"What's up?" I asked.

"It's a fraud alert," she sighed.  "They should call me any minute
now."

As if on cue, her phone rang.  On the other end of the line was a
warm, friendly voice.  I tuned out the conversation while they
chatted.

"We're going to need to verify your account," he said.  "You should
get a code via text any second."

Marissa's phone buzzed in her hand.  She set it on the table while she
read off the code.  He put her on hold, and some dulcet music played
through her speaker.

"Why would he need that?" I interjected.  "He shouldn't need your two
factor, that doesn't seem right at all."

"I... think I've had to do that before?" said Marissa.  "It's hard to
tell."

"Yeah, I know what you mean," I said.  "After the boondoggle with my
credit card, I wouldn't put it past them.  Maybe they are just that
terrible."

We sat in silence for another minute.

"Can you read off the number that called you?" I said, taking a seat
at the computer.  As the on-hold music continued to play, Marissa read
off the number.  I compared it one digit at a time with the number on
the website.  The voice on the other end of the line returned.

"OK, Mrs. Recker, we've verified your account," he continued,
proceeding to read off some charges.

"The TDS one isn't us," said Marissa.  "My husband says that the
Amazon charge is OK."

The guy on the line explained that the scammer also attempted to reset
our password.  "He didn't succeed," he said, "but I can see here that
he tried."

Still seated at the computer, I opened up Marissa's email.  An email
from BMO appeared in her inbox, saying that her password was reset.

"Hey I don't like this," I said.  "It says your password _was_ reset."

"Sorry," said Marissa.  "I'm just a little on edge now.  Is there
anyway you can prove that you're really from BMO right now?"

"I totally understand, mam," he said.  "If you look at the number I
called from, it should match the number on the back of your card."

He went on to explain that her account would be locked, and that she
should wait until she gets a new card in the mail before she attempts
to log in again.  He offered the parting words, "try to have a good
rest of the night."

We immediately dialed back, navigating the menu and listening to the
on-hold music.  We asked the bank to confirm that someone had just
called us.  Sure enough, the person we had spent almost a half hour
talking to on the phone was a scammer.  He had spoofed the phone
number for BMO.  With Marissa's help he had logged into her account
and reset her password while we were talking to him.  In ten minutes
it took us to get a hold of the actual customer service line, he had
already scheduled a bill payment that would have nearly emptied our
bank account.

Look - I get that everyone is just trying to make a living.  I don't
take it personal when scammers use our account to make a quick buck.
It even warms my heart on some level to hear that somebody used my
debit card to buy movie tickets or load up on snacks at Walmart -
ultimately it's just our bank that gets screwed over, and God knows
they kind of deserve it.  But this scammer went above and beyond to -
I'll just say it - be a _chump_.

Scammer, you didn't need to call us during dinner.  You didn't need to
put us on hold.  You didn't need to engage us with small talk, or
swoon us by waving an imaginary expedited shipping fee to get us our
new card.  You didn't need to add such a personal touch to everything
and leave my wife and I feeling so violated.  And you didn't have to
twist the knife with _try to have a good night_.

We can only take comfort in the fact that you didn't actually get paid
yesterday.  You went through the trouble of spoofing your phone call,
rehearsing your script, and doing meticulous research for how customer
service at BMO actually works.  You even had your own on-hold music.
That's a lot of work to make zero dollars.

For that, you BMO scammer are my chump of the week.  Thanks for
stopping by, everyone.  Be careful out there.
