---
title: little breaks, being a cup bearer, and hockey night
banner: 2021-01-14.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  How's your Thursday going so far?  I always
ask that at the beginning of my entries, but I suppose this early in
the morning it's too early to tell.  All I've done so far is brew
coffee, take a shower, and put on clothes - activities in which there
is very little room for error, with the exception of when Marissa
brews coffee.  She's the love of my life.  She's a beautiful,
multi-talented, inspiring person.  But honestly the last time she
touched our coffee machine she probably should have been arrested.

That's one of my favorite running jokes we have going.  I never get
tired of ragging on her for that.

_Sip_.  One of my favorite parts of working from home is the kind of
breaks you can take.  Back when I worked in the office, a twenty
minute break meant wandering the hallways aimlessly, standing next to
my desk, or staring out the window with a satisfied look on my face
like I was posing for a brochure.

Here at home, I can take a _real_ break.  In a matter of seconds, I
can dash downstairs and flop onto the living room crouch, slithering
under a blanket.  I can watch five YouTube videos or even a whole
episode of Seinfeld.  I can play a round of Street Fighter with
Rodney, or wrestle with the dogs.  Working from home, I have immediate
and direct access to things that actually relax me.

And Lord knows I need those things this week.  I had a pretty crazy
day yesterday.  I've done a pretty good job multi-tasking between our
team's support queue and this vault upgrade project, but yesterday the
support queue claimed a lot of my time.  If not for these little
breaks throughout the day, I think I would've quickly gotten burnt
out.

This pomodoro system I'm on is good stuff.  Removing all the guess
work from how I spread my time, the work sessions are more productive
and the breaks are more relaxing.  The only drawback of this method is
the alarm on my desk.  I bought it because it looked very stylish and
aesthetically pleasing, but the timer's sound is absolutely dreadful.
Harsh.  Piercing.  Droning.  The sound alone induces anxiety so well,
it's impressive.

"Your alarm..." began Marissa while walking by my desk.  "Makes me
feel like we're about to get raided by the FBI."

I was more than ready to join the bit.  "My alarm... makes me feel
like I'm on a ship being boarded by Somalian pirates."  (We had just
recently watched the movie _Captain Phillips_ and the reference
landed).

My alarm... makes me feel like I'm watching my own EKG flat-line and
I'm seconds from death.

My alarm... makes me feel like I cut the wrong wire while disarming a
bomb.

My alarm... makes me feel like I just saw a cop with a radar gun in my
rear view mirror while flooring it on the Interstate.

My alarm... makes me feel like I'm in a submarine that's taking on
water.

That's a fun game isn't it?  The good news is that my silent flashing
light replacement timer should be coming in the mail today.  I'd give
my old one to Rodney, but I don't want to risk ever hearing that alarm
again.  You know the one - the alarm that makes me feel like I just
rear ended an ambulance during rush hour.

In other news, I finally got to the bottom of Rodney's mysterious
tummy ache from the other day.  He drank a glass of milk that expired
last Friday.  I should have discovered it sooner, but I clean the
fridge every Wednesday night.  The whiff of sour milk out of the jug
activated a foggy recollection of Rodney saying something about how
the milk was giving him a headache.  I told him to drink it anyway.

I feel terrible.  The way I see it, part of my responsibility in this
family is being a _cup bearer_.  Much like how kings of old used to
designate a servant to taste their food to make sure it wasn't
poisoned, I like to try everything this family is eating.  I guess
it's my way of staying in sync with diet and well-being.

The poor guy probably took a few more gulps out of respect for what I
told him to do.  He left dinner to go lie on the couch, leaving the
glass still half full next to his plate.  Alas, my king was poisoned
on my watch, and I feel great shame.

Yesterday for dinner we had pork in mushroom sauce with mashed
potatoes and green beans.  Rodney got the sense something was
happening when I left his timer on the bread table and tilted the
monitor so he could see.  Last night was hockey night - the first
Blackhawks game of the season.

Unfortunately, we happened to be playing the Lightning, who won the
championship the season before.  This meant that instead of cutting
into hot food when the puck dropped like I had hoped, we had to sit
through a very lengthy and generous award ceremony.  No hockey would
take place until all the ceremonious fart-sniffing was complete.

I don't know anything about the Blackhawks.  All the players I knew
and followed in grade school are long gone.  They've probably changed
a lot of the rules too.  But even if you don't know who the players
are or what's going on, nothing beats the simple pleasure of watching
a puck fly around the ice on TV.

Putting Rodney to bed, we read the _Poop Book_ together.  This marked
the first time we revisited the book since Rodney's own toilet
success.  We got to the page that showed a man, a boy, a toddler, and
a baby all _assuming the position_.

"Which one is dada?" I asked.

Rodney quickly pointed to depiction of a stately gentleman sitting on
the toilet with a pipe and a newspaper.  _Hell yeah it is_, I thought
silently to myself.

"And which one is Rodney?" I asked.

Rodney pointed to the boy on the toilet.  "That's me," he said
proudly.  "I poop on the potty."

_Hell yeah, you do_, I thought to myself.  Thanks for stopping by
today.  Have a great day everyone.
