---
title: anti-journal 3
banner: 2021-04-04.jpg
---

## `2019-04-19 Friday`

Good Morning, Journal!

Last night was good fun.  The quesadillas were messy, but they were a
hit.  We had a late dinner, finally getting Rod down around 8:30 and
then Justin and Megan rolled in around 10.  We got to know each other
over drinks and leftovers, and the good beer kept flowing!  Paying for
it a bit this morning, but it was a good time.  I think any remnants
of a hangover I still have by this afternoon will be utterly zapped by
the stamppot we're making for dinner.

So what else.  Today is shaping up to be a busy work day.  I have a
code screen today - it's the first of seven that are happening over
next week - could be a bit of a marathon.  I wonder if my cheery
morning "dear journal" tone will shift to something more negative.
Also I'm on ticket duty next week.

Just got an email from Brad.  Looks like we had a solid first day of
Kids Code.  Brad set up a minecraft server and put Cord in charge of
maintaining it - apparently he was elated.

Geez, I'm not used to all of these people being up with me in the
morning.  Marissa didn't sleep well, so she's walking around
downstairs trying to get plex to work.  Megan and Justin are hanging
around in the bedroom.  The family slack is already buzzing.
Something about this morning that's just waking everyone up.

I think I'm going to leave things short today.  It will probably take
longer to get ready this morning, as I'll be tip-toeing around our
guests.

What a wonderful morning!

## `2019-04-21 Sunday`

Good Morning!  And happy Easter.  It's difficult to stick to your
routines when you have company staying over, but grateful to get
everyone ready in church with just a little time to spare so I can
write a quick update.  This weekend has been filled with good food,
good liquor, and great company.  Megan and Justin got in late Thursday
night and they are staying with us through Easter weekend.  We took
them to the zoo, went out to Umami, and worked up a good sunburn
walking about on the first truly warm day of spring.  It was all worth
it though, it felt so good to be outside again.

The older I get, the less I like winter.  It's a very beautiful,
contemplative time of year (which is fine, no one is a bigger fan of
quiet contemplation than this guy right here), but consider how
impractical Winter is.  How many things can you really do while
avoiding the out doors?  While keeping all those extra layers lying
around?  While making time every night to shovel the snow?  Shoveling
snow is a mental exercise in futility, all on it's own.

Long story short, I'm becoming more active as I grow older, and
finally noticing how difficult it is to be active during the winter.
That's where I will plant my flag for now.

After church, we're going to go to Hy-Vee to pick up the things we
need to make a traditional easter roasted ham, which incidentally just
buying a ham covers most of that.  I was expecting a very meticulous
and finicky roasting procedure (like a Thanksgiving turkey), but it
turns out these big glorious juicy hams you see in Norman Rockwell
paintings are already cooked and all you need to do in the kitchen is
just heat the damn thing up.  Maybe stick some pineapple slices to
it.  Chef John hits the whole thing in a blow torch to really get the
brown sugar bubbling - I promised Marissa she could do the same.

Lol - almost lost this entire journal article.  The undo key in emacs
doesn't work the same in console emacs apparently, which I'm using
this morning because I didn't think I had time to boot my desktop.

I think that's as good a time as any to stop writing, don't want to
push my luck and accidentally delete everything again.  Here's to a
beautiful easter morning!

## `2019-04-24 Wednesday`

Good Morning, Journal!

Had a very lovely, relaxing day yesterday.  Work is still kind of
crazy this week, but I got to skate to and from the office, and the
weather was beautiful - especially in the afternoon.  When I got home,
Rodney and Marissa were playing with sidewalk chalk on the driveway.
I love it when my family is waiting outside for me to come home from
work.  I took Rod to Hy-Vee to pick up a few things, then we grilled
burgers and ate outside.

Rod had kind of a meltdown before bed.  He was having so much fun
playing baseball outside that he didn't want to put his toys away and
go to bed.  It kind of turned into an ordeal, but we figured it out.
He's a nice boy.  He occasionally loses his temper, but it's always
followed by remorse.  I was pretty proud of him last night, he walked
downstairs and game Momma a really nice apology, then he was back to
normal.

I wonder if he'll remember this time in his life.  I certainly don't
remember anything, but people are different, and maybe he'll be able
to recall some things that are happening now.

I don't have a lot to say this morning.  I think I'm still trying to
get my brain moving this morning.  I even keep taking breaks from
writing and just poking around my desktop.  My todo list is kind of
piling up, and I guess that's making me generally distracted.  Working
from home today should be nice, I'm looking forward to the time to
just focus on work.

I'm leading Kids Code tomorrow, and I have no idea what I'm going to
do.  It's in a different building this week (we couldn't get the
library for part of the spring semester), and we don't have any
computers at the moment.  Which sucks, because we're a computer club.
Let's see if I can figure something out in twenty-four hours.

Sorry that I'm a little negative today.  I'm feeling pretty good
today, I swear.  I'll try to turn it around this morning.

Let's have a great day today!
