---
title: meatballs, rat tails, and bad commercials
banner: 2021-02-08.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everyone.  Happy Monday.  Hope you're feeling warm and
rested today.  It's so cold and bleak outside, it almost feels like
our house was magically transported to the arctic or the Gobi desert.
It's the kind of cold you can feel in the air even sitting on the
couch in the living room.  There's no moisture in the air.  The skin
on my hands is dry and cracking.  It's so cold I dread even stepping
outside just to take the garbage out.

We're finally at the point where I'm questioning my strategy for just
sticking with flip-flops all winter.  Heading into the colder months
this year, I was too stubborn to put my flip-flops away.  During our
balmy November, December, and January this strategy was serviceable,
but these days flip-flops aren't looking like a good move.  Maybe I'll
experiment with flip-flops and warm socks - always a fashionable
combination.

_Sip_.  What a tough stretch of winter.  Marissa and I had no choice
but to take a few days off running outside.  We're both starting to
feel a little cooped up.  This cold weather makes you want to nap
under a pile of blankets, and then all the extra naps give you extra
energy, and it's hard to go right to bed with extra energy.  To
address the issue, Marissa ordered a cheap stationary bike for our
living room, which should be arriving later today.  I think that was a
good move.  I'm looking forward to finding an excuse to move my legs
and burn some energy in the comfort of our living room.  I'd love to
go for a long imaginary bike ride while binging a YouTube channel.

For now without a stationary bike, we're making do with boy stuff.
Rodney invented a new game this weekend.  He has these colorful
plastic balls that look like what you'd find in a kids' ball pit.  All
yesterday he ran around the house with them in his arms, flinging them
at me and Marissa and yelling _meatball_.

_Meatball!_ A red ball whizzed past my head and skittered across the
floor.

_Meatball!_  A green ball bounced off my chest and rolled across the
table where Marissa was spoon-feeding Miles.  I scooped up the ball
before it rolled off the table.

_Meatball!_ I yelled.  I flung the ball at Rodney and it bounced off
his forehead.  He shook his head and laughed.

We don't actually know why Rodney calls the game _meatball_, but the
game didn't even end there.  Rodney got excited and started to run
around the house, hiding his _meatballs_ all over the place.  I found
three meatballs in the meat drawer of the fridge.  Rodney filled our
bowl of lemons with meatballs.  He left meatballs in cabinets and
drawers all over the living room.  Even while making coffee this
morning, I had to kick three meatballs out of the way.

Rodney and I also got into a few fighting matches in the kitchen.
When Rodney is finished eating, he bounces into the kitchen and waits
for me to wipe his hands and face with a wet rag.  Usually when I'm
done I roll up the wet rag, threatening to give Rodney a rat tail.  He
flees into the living room.

But earlier this weekend, he stood his ground.  Rather than fleeing
the battle, he grabbed a towel off the oven rack and squared his
stance.  The fight was on.  Rodney lacked the dexterity needed to roll
the towel up and make it _crack_, so he just charged me and swung it
like an axe.  I countered, catching his towel with mine and swiftly
pulling him to the ground.  He awkwardly clambered back up to his
knees.  With his butt held high up in the air, I flicked my wrist and
hit him just above the cheek.

_Snap!_ It wasn't my hardest rat tail, but it was a good one.  Rodney
froze and then began to cry.  I dropped my towel and crumpled to the
floor.

"I'm sorry dude," I said hugging him.  "Too hard, that was too hard.
My bad, dude, I'm sorry."

This kind of thing happens in horseplay.  Accidents happen.  For my
crime of rat tailing my four year old son just a little too hard, boy
code demanded that I give him a free shot.

"One free shot, dude," I said.  I crouched on the floor and stuck my
butt high up in the air, just like he had.  Rodney swung the towel as
hard as he could.  He barely hit me, but I cartoonishly embellished.

"WAAAAHOOOOOOOOOOOOO!"  I jumped up to my feet and ran out of the
kitchen holding my butt with two hands.  Rodney cackled with laughter
and my guilt was absolved.

Yesterday was pretty much a sports day.  We watched church in the
morning, then rolled right into a Blackhawks game over lunch.  Rodney
proudly wore his _Kaner_ jersey and made snowmen out of playdough in
front of the TV.  Once the game ended, we had only a half hour before
we had to switch to the super bowl.  Sports all day.

Speaking of which, what an interesting super bowl, huh?  At first I
was expecting a classic Chief's comeback.  But as the game went on and
it became clear that the Chiefs were falling apart, I just started to
feel bad for them.  Sacks.  Interceptions.  They didn't even score a
touch down all game.  In fact, if I were watching my game with my eyes
blurred, you could have fooled me into thinking that the Bears were
playing.

Being a Bears fan, I didn't really have a serious stake in this game.
I'm grateful to the Buccs for eliminating the Packers, but the Chiefs
are a pretty talented and likeable team.  Admittedly I ignored most of
the game.  I spent the first half making guac and fajitas in the
kitchen, occasionally peeking my head out to check the score or catch
the punchline of a promising commercial.

The worst commercial of the game goes to the long-winded Jeep
commercial with the chapel in the desert.  Jeep, that commercial was
so long and pointless that halfway through I started to wonder if
Rodney accidentally switched the channel to _Lifetime_.

Let's get one thing straight: the only good super bowl ads are the
funny ones.  No one is going to show up to work on Monday and discuss
the super bowl ads they found the most inspirational.  Furthermore, if
there was anything left unsaid about the pandemic, there's a fat
chance that the chumps at Jeep marketing are going to find it.

That's right, Jeep.  For your silly multi-million dollar commercial
that just featured b-roll of a cowboy driving around a chapel in the
desert, I present you my own award: chump of the week.  Raise it high
over your head like the Lombardi trophy.  This week, you're the Tom
Brady of bad commercials.

Have a good week, everyone.
