---
title: anti-journal 2
banner: 2021-03-28.jpg
---

## `2019-05-20 Monday`

Good Morning Journal!

It feels good to begin a regular week.  Rodney is home, and it was so
refreshing to put him to bed and get back into an evening routine.
Tonight I'll probably take him to Hy-Vee to pick up a few things.

Last night I made that Sicilian anchovy and onion pizza, and boy was
it good.  I think I just found my new secret weapon recipe.  It tasted
nothing like anchovies, but somehow all of those flavors magically
came together and turned into something completely new.  And the
crust!  Let's just say I'm excited to have that recipe in my tool
belt.  I'm most definitely going to copy it over to my notes later
today.

We have nothing much planned for this week.  I think we're just going
to keep it typical - just cooking, chores, and hanging around the
house.  We even have a few more days of much cooler weather, it's
cloudy and mid 40s right now.

Rodney was so funny last night.  He was so hyper from coming home, he
scarfed down all of his pizza and then jumped on the couch while
watching blippi for about an hour straight.  He clearly had fun, but
he also clearly likes when things go back to normal.  And don't we
all?  I had a lot of anticipation for last weekend, and Marissa and I
got a lot of time together.  Man, I hate being away from my kid
though.  That was no fun at all.  I think having a kid around the
house ensures a kind of structure.  Without Rodney, I didn't really
feel like keeping the house clean and I had no reason to even wake up
before 9.

I finally gave Tyler the Creator's IGOR a listen.  I'm not sure how I
feel about it.  One of the tracks is stuck in my head at the moment,
but I'm not sure how the rest of the album makes me feel.  Tyler's
music isn't very satisfying to listen to - it doesn't quite go hard
enough, there's not enough body to the songs... I'll try listening
again at work so I can develop my opinion.

And speaking of developed opinions, Marissa and I watched the final
episode of Game of Thrones last night.  What a freakin stinkbomb.  Out
of all the endings they could have picked, that must have been the
worst.  I'm now completely numb to game of thrones.

Well journal, let's have a Monday.  This week, let's dive back into a
routine and do our chores with pride.  But let's also take time this
week to reflect on what happened last Friday.

## `2019-05-22 Wednesday`

Good Morning Journal!

Had kind of a slow start today, but that's OK because I'm working from
home and I have the time to do that.  Lately, I stopped showering on
Wednesday morning's, so it gives me plenty of time to putz around the
house and drink coffee.  Plus, I think it's better for my hair - after
all they say that you're not supposed to wash it every day.

Yesterday was a great day!  I had a pretty busy day just helping
people with stuff as part of ticket duty.  Lately my new thing is
writing long, complete, well-cited answers to questions.  It
especially helps when people are in another timezone and it may take
them 12 hours to respond with "what do you mean" - so that's a win.

I got home in time to make stammpot.  This time I employed the use of
_mise en place_, which I just learned from a YouTube series is just
the art of preparing and organizing your workstation before you start
cooking.  It felt gratuitous and I was convinced we were going to be
eating late because of it, but to my surprise it only took me an hour
to make a full blown stammpot meal from scratch!  Which was pretty
good.  I think those French are on to something.  Going to have to
prioritize the _mise en place_ in my own cooking methods.

After that, we put Rod to bed and just hung out.  I watched YouTube
videos while Marissa did a resin session, then we reconvened to play
Nazi Zombies.

Today should be a nice day.  We're going to go to lunch at glass
nickel, and since the sun is supposed to come out later I'm going to
make chicken wings on the grill.  Well, let's have a Wednesday!
Here's to a day at home to relax.

## `2019-05-25 Saturday`

Good Evening Journal!

Notice I did not say good morning, I guess I'm changing it up today.
I went a little easy on myself this morning and had a slow start.
Today Marissa took Ziggy to a dog agility class, so it was just the
three duderinos back at the ranch today.  Rodney slept in too.  We hit
the ground running pretty hard at first - we all walked to the park
after packing a quick lunch and enough diapers for _all_ of us to shit
our pants if we really wanted.  We had a pretty good time.  Rodney got
to sword fight with a neighbor kid named Toby, and despite my best
estimates there were no injuries and Rodney gleefully gave the sword
back to Toby's mother when they were ready to hit the road.

Afterwards, we dropped Ollie off at home and walked to the market,
picked up the stuff we needed to make _poposa_, then just kind of
lounged around while it simmered on the stove.  So all in all I think
it was a good day.

Jordan called me today.  Which was weird, because I almost never get
phone calls that aren't spam.  I guess he wanted to catch up, by the
sound of the message, he was driving and probably a little bored.  I
probably should have picked up, but my head just wasn't in the right
place.  I also spilled _poposo_ gravy all over the place so I was a
little flustered this evening.  Marissa actually offered to put Rod to
bed tonight so I'd have a chance to collect my thoughts.  I don't know
why - I didn't really have any special revelations describing my day -
but I already feel better.  I feel centered.  I guess there you go:
the moral of the story is that maybe writing in my journal is
something I _need_ to do, not just _want_ to do.

See you bright an early, Journal.  It's good to be back.
