---
title: the k'nex table, zoom training, and minnie's first bath
banner: 2021-04-29.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Thursday.  I have some exciting news
to share.  For the first time ever, readers of alex-recker-dot-com can
participate in our first ever puzzle challenge.  Today's puzzles comes
to us from (who else?) Rodney.  The other day he handed me this
sheet of paper.  The message: _ONOOODR OIER_.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-29-message.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 29 message" src="/images/2021-04-29-message.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

As he handed me this sheet of paper, he was rambling about the most
recent episode of _Ryan's World_.  "And do you know where Ryan's best
friend comes from? _America_."

"Dude," I replied.  "Did you know you are from _America_ too?"  I
expected a little more marvel and wonder from Rodney, but he simply
nodded, as if he were humoring me.  _Yeah, I know.  Duh._

Based on that context, if anyone can decipher Rodney's mysterious
message, you become eligible for the grand prize of... hm.  I don't
know.  I'll mail you the next bit of gibberish that Rodney writes on a
piece of paper so you can decipher that for us too.  As always, good
work is rewarded with more work.

Rodney's creations continue to amuse us.  Yesterday he made a
butterfly out of k'nex.  He salvaged four geometric wings and fastened
them around an axle, affixed with a tail and a head.  The rendition
was intricate, and actually impressive.

"Did you see that arrow he made the other day?" asked Marissa.  "He
made like a big cartoon arrow."

"Is it the one that he attached to that... big thing he made?" I
asked.

"Yeah, that's the one," laughed Marissa.  "I don't know what that big
thing he made was, but he tried to add it to the k'nex display table
and I turned him down."

We set aside a little coffee table in our bedroom to display Rodney's
creations.  He makes interesting things, but not all of his creations
make the cut.  As heartless as it sounds, sometimes we have to turn
him away.  His latest creation was a giant sprawling mass of pieces
with some of his older creations bolted haphazardly in random places,
and both the butterfly and the big silly arrow were present.  The most
descriptive term I could come up for it was a _nonsense machine_.  We
turned it down because it took up too much space, and it looked a bit
too thrown together.  Hey - if we stuck everything on the k'nex
display table, then it wouldn't be very special, would it?

_Sip_.  WEDNESDAY.  HOW WAS IT?  What kind of a Wednesday did you get
to have?  I had one of those bonkers type of work days that was
stuffed with meetings.  And when you get to the point where the day
felt like a giant rolling zoom meeting, it's close to an out of body
experience.  Especially since on a zoom call, you can actually see
yourself talking in a small square in the corner.

As a side note, I've started to wonder if I've grown too accustomed to
talking to people over zoom.  I wonder how I'm going to fare talking
to someone at work without being able to see my own face
simultaneously.  Do I have something in my teeth?  Is my hair sticking
up in a weird way?  Do I have a booger peeking out of my nose or a big
piece of crust falling out of my eye?  These are all questions you
_don't_ need to ask yourself on Zoom because that tiny little box with
your face in it is right in front of you.  _Net zoals een kleine
spiegel voor jezelf._  Just like a tiny mirror for yourself.

On top of the usual meetings, yesterday was an orientation day.  As a
proud member of the orientation team, I was called upon to give my
usual spiel.  My session is the third zoom presentation on the last
day of training.  People are usually a little burnt out by the time
they make it that far, so I try to make it fun.  This latest group,
however, still had a lot of energy.  They listened interactively,
asked questions, and even joked around.  I clicked into the slide
where I explain all the programming language we use at Zendesk.

"So historically, we're a ruby shop," I explained.  "We've written
ruby since the first day of our existence, and we continue to write
ruby."  I shifted to a more personal tone.  "And you know what, being
a former python guy, I think I can say I've finally come around to
ruby, it's pretty cool."

"Oh YUCK," piped Anthony with a teasing grin on his face.

"The little stuff is pretty cool," I continued.  "I like that you can
write functions with questions marks at the end when they return true
or false.  I think that's cute."

"I also like the implicit returns," said Junze, another new hire.  "It
keeps everything so much cleaner."

"I _hate_ implicit returns," said Anthony curtly.  Anthony and Junze
began to spar, aggressively talking over each other.  I could tell
that they were joking.  Wanting to join in on the fun, I leaned into
my microphone and yelled.

"THAT'S ENOUGH, YOU TWO.  STOP IT.  THERE WILL BE NO FLAME WARS IN MY
TRAINING SESSION."  A silence hung over the call.  I wondered if my
position leading the training session made it harder to sense if I was
joking.  So I nervously chuckled.  "_He he_.  I love it.  Love this
stuff.  So funny.  OK next slide."

After work, I took Rodney to Hy-Vee.  That helped shake off the all
day zoom-daze I was feeling.  We ate dinner, and then we gave Minnie
her first bath in our house.  She bravely faced her initiation, and as
her fluffy hair air dried she was extra snuggly last night.  We've
never known a corgi to enjoy baths, and after her first bath that
still holds true.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-29-bath-1.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 29 bath 1" src="/images/2021-04-29-bath-1.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-29-bath-2.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 29 bath 2" src="/images/2021-04-29-bath-2.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-04-29-bath-3.jpg">
<img alt="2021 04 29 bath 3" src="/images/2021-04-29-bath-3.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Thursday, everyone.
