---
title: a half week, a herd of unicycles, and the squizzle
banner: 2021-06-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Welcome to Tuesday.  Today marks the first
day that I have not wanted to blast my sinuses with a power washer out
of frustration.  I think my body is finally starting to beat back this
damn virus.  There's still a lot of extracurricular mucous action at
play, but it doesn't feel like it will stay around for a long time.
Here's to helper T cells, macrophages, and... platelets?  Killer T's?
WBC's?  It's so easy to forget the things you learned in high school,
isn't it?

_Sip_.  My morning shower was cut short this morning.  A drop of body
wash fell into my right eye, and the stinging pain made me revert to a
helpless child.  How long has it been since I made a user error like
that in the shower?  I think this morning I must have ended two
decades of unblemished shower success.  Just like _that_ - in the
blink of an eye, a drop of soap rolls behind your eyelid and
everything falls apart.  To paraphrase the great Mike Tyson, everyone
has a plan until they get soap in their eye.  Thank you for your
concern - I remain resolute in defeat.

How is your week going?  How does your body feel, and what kind of
emotions are running through it?  This week I'm feeling tense.  I feel
like I've angered the computer gods when I had the audacity to ask off
a half week for my sister in law's wedding, and as punishment they are
squeezing five days of work into three.  I'm still cleaning up after
the last incidents, helping another team build out their secret
management, and squeezing in time to check in on the interns.  It got
so busy this month that I almost forgot about my team switch.  In less
than two weeks away, I practically begin a whole new career.  A bright
spec of light at the end of the tunnel.  The team switch excites me,
and casts a hopeful light on everything.  I savor the promise of a
fresh start.

Speaking of hope, a half week isn't so bad either.  I'm on the hook
until Wednesday, then we're taking the whole family up to the twin
cities for the holy union of Auntie Megan and Uncle Justin.  We're
taking the _whole_ damn family - kids, dogs, and maybe I'll even stash
a few super worms away as a little wedding present for their bearded
dragon Franklin (of course he has an Instagram account:
[@franklin_the_beardie]).

[@franklin_the_beardie]: https://www.instagram.com/franklin_the_beardie/?hl=en

That's about all that's happening in our world, but what about
Rodney's world?  Rodney was busy yesterday.  First, he accompanied mom
and his sister Ziggy to agility training.  Marissa tells me that
Rodney has found a new niche as a dog training distraction.  Many dogs
have trouble focusing on agility when there are people (especially
kids) present.  Marissa loans Rodney out to people that want to work
on this behavior.  Rodney sits and watches the dog practice, and when
the dog inevitably runs over to greet him, Rodney gives them the cold
shoulder - placing his hands in his lap and looking in a different
direction.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-22-agility.jpg">
    <img alt="agility" src="/images/2021-06-22-agility.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>Professional dog distraction by Rodney</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Rodney has co-opted his broken remote control dinosaur.  It's now his
baby dinosaur named _Shellvin_.  Shellvin follows Rodney around
everywhere, sleeping at his bedside in a cage made from k'nex.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-22-shelvin-cage.jpg">
    <img alt="shellvin-cage" src="/images/2021-06-22-shelvin-cage.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Rodney kept explaining to us that Shellvin came from Ryan's world.
The _real_ Shellvin was red and yellow.  A quick google search proved
him right - the characters name is _Shelldon_ - a tiny red and yellow
dinosaur who wears a broken egg shell like a diaper.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-22-shelvin.jpg">
    <img alt="shellvin" src="/images/2021-06-22-shelvin.jpg"/>
  </a>
  <figcaption><p>I like Shellvin better.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

In the afternoon we all took a walk to go pick up some ice cream.  We
hugged the right edge of the bike patch so the cyclists could safely
whiz by, but yesterday we saw different kind of bike traffic.  What
can only be described as a _herd_ of unicycles rode by.

"Hey look, a unicycle," I commented as the first rode by.

"Did you know that I almost got into unicycles in college?  I told my
dad I wanted to buy one and he started laughing.  I'm really thankful
he was honest with me, that would have been a huge mistake,"
remembered Marissa.

"If you had bought a unicycle, we probably would have never met," I
laughed.

More unicycles passed us.  Four, five, six.  Then an entire wave.  It
became clear we were walking through some kind of unicycle club.
Rodney, who had never seen a real life unicycle before, was doubled
over from laughter.  He just couldn't wrap his head around the
concept.

I support a wide range of hobbies, but the unicycle feel like a
strange choice even for a hobby.  I feel like even the inventor of the
first unicycle would be surprised to learn that people in the future
would use the unicycle as a real means of transportation.  How do you
brake?  How do you go down hill?  And what the hell are you supposed
to do with your hands?  As the herd of unicycles passed us, I saw some
people holding them out for balance, some people holding them limply
at their side, and some people just looked awkward like they had
nobody to talk to at a party.

Later that day, I took Rodney to ice skating class.  To my great
parenting shame, I forgot to grab Rodney's helmet.  Beside him, his
classmates wore hockey pads, mittens, and bike helmets, and Rodney
stuck out like a sore thumb.  Just his skates, a hoodie, and his
shaggy blond hair.

Yesterday he mastered _the squizzle_.  The _squizzle_ is a difficult
move where you carve your skates in a wide circle, moving your body
forward.  After his first successful squizzle, he flung his arms into
the air and celebrated like he had just won a gold medal.  He's a joy
to watch at practice - not because he's getting good, but because he
looks so grateful to be there.

Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a great Tuesday everyone.
