---
title: sick days, the snack table nazi, and chicken wild rice
banner: 2021-06-18.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, everybody.  Happy Friday.  It's a good thing you're
reading this journal entry from the safety of your own computer
screen.  I shudder to think about what kind of awful cold virus spores
I'd expose you to if we were talking in person.  I've sneezed three
times just while writing this opening paragraph.  This is a bad one,
dear reader.  Scratchy throat.  Dripping nostrils.  Head feeling
inflated with warm helium gas.  But I'm feeling just a little better
than I did yesterday, and I wouldn't be here right now if I didn't
feel like getting some work done.

Sometimes sick days can recharge you in a weird way.  My body feels
less than optimal, but my brain feels awake and alert.  So this
morning I've got my metaphorical combat boots on ready to run back
into the trenches of software.  I'm armed to the teeth with hot
coffee, dayquil, and comfy clothes.  Let's slug it out one more day
for each other - for the weekend.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  Feeling healthy?  Take a deep,
booger-free inhale through your nose just for me.  I'm feeling just
fine today.  I expect to run out of steam sometime in the early
afternoon.  Earlier this week I set up a happy hour with the interns,
and my attendance will be questionable.  I couldn't in good conscience
hand this obnoxious summer cold over to anyone through sharing drinks
at the terrace, but I always leave room for a miracle.

What can you even write about when you're sick?  I can easily sum up
yesterday with a short tag line: sleep and youtube.

There was also lots of reading.  Winking in and out of naps on the
couch, I feel like I read every scrap of football news on the
Internet.  I checked in on how our QB Justin Fields was faring in the
final days of Bears OTA's.  I caught up on the scuttle around the
Bears putting in a bid on the Arlington racetrack as a possibility for
a new stadium.  I even peeked for new developments in the Aarond
Rodgers drama.  I feel thoroughly informed of all trivia happening
around Halas hall.

The news of the Bears putting in an actual bid on the racetrack
surprised me.  I understand the mix of emotions people are feeling.
On one hand, Soldier Field is tiny, frigid, and objectively a little
ugly.  But its unique, and it deserves respect as a part of the team's
history.  And you can't beat the view of the lake front and the
skyline, and the feeling of watching a football game in the proper
city.  If they leave they stadium, I'll understand, and I'll be
grateful I got to watch at least one game there in my lifetime.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-18-soldier-field.png">
    <img alt="soldier-field" src="/images/2021-06-18-soldier-field.png"/>
  </a>
</figure>

I've actually been to the Arlington Racetrack a few times.  It's down
the street from my high school, and one year I spent an entire week
there for youth group to help put on a vacation bible school for the
local kids.  I got off easy that week - some of the kids had to
fulfill roles of teacher, mentor, and Spanish translator.  I held it
down all week at the snack table.  I had goldfish crackers, ice cold
lemonade, and chocolate chip cookies at the ready for waves of
children that would descend in fifteen minute increments.  I remember
I had a good system, and my rigor earned me the affectionate nickname
_snack table nazi_.

For a sick day, Rodney was a great YouTube binging companion.  He
slithered under the thick living room blanket with me, and the two of
us cleared a whole playlist of spider and reptile videos.  We watched
a special edition Christmas video from the Snake Discovery people
where they fed their lizards, pythons, and even an alligator.
Watching all the rigamarole I was glad that none of our pets required
a daily feeding of wet mice, frozen rabbits, or unwanted chunks of
deer carcass.

Just for laughs, Rodney and I revisted a video from our favorite
Youtube channel _Exotics Lair_.  He's this guy from Signapore who has
a whole room full of tarantulas, and he makes these funny videos
mocking how confrontational his spiders get over daily maintenance.
His best video is a compilation of Orange Baboon Tarantulas reacting
to getting their water bowl changed.  Orange Baboon Tarantulas are
known for being aggressive.  I've seen some jokes where people refer
to the abbreviation _OBT_ as _Orange Bitey Thing_.

For dinner, Marissa treated me to homemade chicken wild rice.  That
soup might be the official state soup of Minnesota, and it's a real
treat when it's prepared by a Minnesota native.  Serving me a hot
bowl, Marissa brought me back to a vivid memory.

"I remember one time you asked me about a really simple meal I had
that stuck with me," she said.  "It was this soup.  My dad and I each
bought a bowl at a restaurant when we went to see David Archuleta in
concert."

After Rodney went to bed, I grabbed my laptop and returned to the
couch.  After spending the whole day napping and watching YouTube, I
felt like writing some code.  I ended up writing some of the best code
I've ever made last night.  Writing code makes for wonderful little
dopamine rushes that can distract you when you're sick, especially
because it doesn't expend so much energy and it doesn't aggravate
headaches.  I felt inspired to completely redo my website, and I
finished so much of it yesterday that I think it might actually happen
this time.

That's what I got today.  I ran a little short today, so I'm just
going to have to treat you to some new pictures to close the gap in
the word debt.  Thanks for stopping by today, have a great Friday.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-18-miles.jpg">
    <img alt="miles" src="/images/2021-06-18-miles.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-18-rodney.jpg">
    <img alt="rodney" src="/images/2021-06-18-rodney.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-06-18-flower.jpg">
    <img alt="flower" src="/images/2021-06-18-flower.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>
