---
title: on-call, a missing bottle of rum, and a new fishtank
banner: 2021-07-22.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good morning, friends.  Happy Thursday.  With the whole house asleep,
I'm enjoying a brief moment of quiet before things really get going,
and I hope you're doing the same.

I'm coming to you from what is officially my first on-call shift as a
networking engineer.  My shift started yesterday afternoon.  The
Wednesday-to-Wednesday cadence had me scratching my head at first, but
the longer I think about it the more I see the hidden genius.

On my old team, our shifts started on Monday morning, and they lasted
until the following Monday morning.  Under this system, the week feels
great until you get to Friday when you have that sinking feeling in
your heart knowing you still have a whole weekend to go.  And to twist
the knife a little more, when your shift finally does end, it's a
Monday.  You have yet to traverse an entirely new work week before you
can reach your next off-duty weekend.

But under this innovative _Wednesday to Wednesday_ system?  Ah, now
we're talking.  You finish your shift on a Wednesday.  You only have
two measly work days before you get to the weekend, and having time to
ramp up to a shift on Monday and Tuesday helps too.  This new team has
made me a believer in the Wednesday-to-Wednesday on-call system, and I
can only hope my old team sees the light too.

_Sip_.  How are you feeling today?  I hope you're in good spirits.
I'm feeling good today, especially now that our home network has been
fully restored.  I had one last annoying, lingering issue in trying to
get Plex remote access and OpenDNS to play nicely together.  The
nagging issue soaked up an hour of my free time last night and exactly
ten minutes this morning.  I haven't totally wrapped my head around
why adding a host level DNS server override fixed the issue, but in
this case I felt grateful that my router could do that.  I guess
that's the tradeoff of running all this "smart guy" stuff at home.  It
crashes spectacularly, but when it's working you can fine tune your
way out of almost any problem.

I had an exciting day of work yesterday.  Vicente and I paired on what
could best be described as a _configuration crisis_.  We moved
swiftly, working off of the same bottomless slack thread in our team's
channel.  We worked down to the wire, kicking off our production
change at 4:30 PM.  Anxiously, I stared at the clock at the corner of
my screen.  I had only left a half hour to roll the change out to
three customer partitions, but I forgot about the new mandatory _soak
time_.

"You go get started on dinner," said Vicente.  "I can do the other
pods."

Without much time to plan, I went with the Recker family standby
weeknight standard: mashed potatoes, green beans, and pork tenderloin
in cream sauce.  Zipping through the aisles of the grocery store with
a basket in hand, I mentally sifted through our cabinet at home.  I
remembered that we were out of cognac and wine.  "We'll just have to
use rum again," I muttered.

Back at home, I sifted through our liquor shelf.  We had five year old
bottle of Triple sec, an untouched bottle of mezcal, and an nearly
empty bottle of port wine.  But no rum.

"Where is our bottle of rum?" I asked aloud, wandering the kitchen.
Marissa joined me in the hunt.

"I thought you dumped that out," she asked.

"I would _never_ dump out the rum," I said, offended.  "It's a good
backup for pan sauces."

While searching for the missing bottle of rum, we couldn't help but
yell _WHY IS THE RUM GONE?_ to each other - an overused, but
situationally perfect movie reference.

I had to use the bottle of port to make the sauce.  Mixed with the
cream, the sauce took on the color of chocolate syrup, and it felt so
strange to pour it over the top of mashed potatoes.  Rodney studied
the dark, viscous liquid on his plate.  "What's this?" he asked.

"Mashed potatoes, pork, and chocolate sauce," I laughed.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-22-dinner.jpg">
    <img alt="dinner" src="/images/2021-07-22-dinner.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Across the dinner table, Miles squealed and push his food around the
plastic tray of his high chair.  Marissa leaned in.  "YOU NEED TO
EAT," she yelled playfully, jabbing at his food with her index
finger.  Miles copied her, poking at his potatoes with one finger.

"No, YOU need to eat," said Marissa, poking the food.  Miles copied
her again, and by the third iteration Rodney was laughing so hard that
he couldn't breathe.

Miles is at a fun age - just old enough to start to put some mental
puzzle pieces together, but small enough where he has to resort to
bizarre cues like grinning, shaking, gesturing, and yelling _DAH DAH
DAH_ or _MAH MAH MAH_.

After dinner, Marissa set her attention on the fishtank.  For the past
week, we've had two fishtanks set up alongside each other in the
dining room - her old algae-infested tank on the right, and her shiny
futuristic new _Waterbox_ on the left.  The final part finally arrived
in the mail, and at last she could begin the great migration.

First she moved _Ibb_ and _Obb_.  "Maybe... just move one of them at
first," I suggested from the dinner table.

"Oh, just in case he keels over like our cleaner shrimp?" she laughed.
At the time, when our cleaner shrimp _Stephane I_ keeled over dead
seconds after hitting the water, we felt sad.  But enough time has
passed where now Marissa can get an easy laugh out of me by imitating
the way he rolled across the sand like a stiff piece of plastic.

Ibb and Obb didn't keel over dead.  They happily darted around their
new abode.  "Your request to transfer to the ocean was denied, but
this was the best we could do," said Marissa quietly.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-22-fishtank-1.jpg">
    <img alt="fishtank-1" src="/images/2021-07-22-fishtank-1.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>

Next, Rodney and I helped Marissa move the corals an anemones to
tupperware cups.  They would be sanitized and moved to a temporary
holding tank, after they were coaxed into leaving the old rock of
course.  For the first time, I got to witness the strange and
fascinating methods for convincing an anemone to leave its foothold.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-22-coral.jpg">
    <img alt="coral" src="/images/2021-07-22-coral.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>


"Can't you just pull it out with tongs?" I asked.

"No, you don't want to hurt it," said Marissa.  "It will detach, you
just have to encourage it."  Marissa flipped the rock and tapped at it
with a hammer.  The anemone went limp, falling into her hand.  "Got
it," she said.

<figure>
  <a href="/images/2021-07-22-fishtank-2.jpg">
    <img alt="fishtank-2" src="/images/2021-07-22-fishtank-2.jpg"/>
  </a>
</figure>


Thanks for stopping by today.  Have a wonderful Thursday, everyone.
