---
title: walkie talkies, revenge bedtime procrastination, and google earth
banner: 2021-01-30.jpg
---

Dear Journal,

Good evening, everybody.  Happy Saturday.  Let me set the stage here.
It's about 10 in the evening.  Three bowls stained orange from squash
soup are sitting in the sink.  The living room is put together, except
for a little pile of baby toys we've set aside to entertain Miles
until his bedtime.  Miles can finally sit up and play on his own.  A
long, filmy string of drool wets his bib while he jabs at a toy
steering wheel.  He shrieks and screams - shrieks of _joy_ (we hear
him shriek a lot, we can definitely tell the difference).

Beside me on the table are Rodney's paw patrol walkie talkies.  Lately
they've been a small source of amusement for me.  Rodney forgets to
turn them off when he's done playing with them.  He'll leave them in
the bottom of his toy bin where they'll hiss and crackle picking up
other radio signals from around the neighborhood.  Sometimes it sounds
like truckers trying to find a clear channel.  Sometimes it sounds
like cops checking up on the side streets.  Sometimes it sounds like
kids playing with their own pair of walkie talkies.

Sometimes I keep a walkie talkie beside me in hopes that it will pick
up a clear transmission.  I try to reply.  "This is your neighbor
Alex, I got you on the Chase piece - come in," I'll chirp.  Only once
was I acknowledged.  A thin, garbled voice called out _ALEX!_, then
went silent.  Life isn't Paw Patrol and this isn't Adventure Bay.
Sometimes when you _yelp for help_, the transmission doesn't even
reach Ryder.

_Sip_.  I may be sitting on some promising ideas for a darker,
grittier Paw Patrol fan fiction, but I've got better things to talk
about.  We had a lovely Saturday.  Our street shimmers with a fresh
snowfall.  We've got a fridge stocked with soup and leftover chicken
stock.

It's also art weekend.  Marissa has been working round the clock for
this release, and now that we're actually here there's nothing much
for her to do.  Once everything is painted, all she really needs to do
is a couple of Instagram live sessions and wait for the orders to come
in.  She's taken some well deserved rest today, and her favorite type
of rest is a nap on the couch with Ziggy in this exact position.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-30-nap.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 30 nap" src="/images/2021-01-30-nap.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

Speaking of sleep, I think I've made a mental breakthrough in my
personal mission to normalize my sleep schedule on the weekends.  And
it was all thanks to an article that my neighbor Dana posted on her
Facebook timeline.

The article, titled [Revenge Bedtime Procrastination], describes a
habit some people form that causes them to sacrifice sleep for more
personal time.  You'd think an extremely busy day might cause someone
to head upstairs to bed a little earlier, but in the phenomenon of
Revenge Bedtime Procrastination, the opposite is true.

I've never heard the term, but this is very descriptive of my own
habits and motivations for cheating myself out of sleep.  I can relate
to the need for a sense of control over my time, and on busier days
that sometimes doesn't happen until I should be sleeping.

I'm doing pretty good on that front this weekend, though.  I mustered
the will power to get out of bed today in time to make breakfast and
clean up the kitchen.  Making progress.

[Revenge Bedtime Procrastination]: https://www.glamour.com/story/revenge-bedtime-procrastination-is-real-according-to-psychologists

What else is going on... we've also made a breakthrough in amusing
Rodney.  This morning I showed him the simple joy clicking around
Google Earth.  At first, Rodney just watched while I manipulated the
3D globe on the screen.  I showed him our street, our city, our state,
and our part of the country.  "Mimi and Papa are up here," I
explained.  "Grandma Jane and Grandpa Dirk are down here... dude we
can go anywhere in the world!  Where do you want to go?"

We could have looked at the beaches in Fiji.  We could have looked at
the endless dessert of the Sahara or the cliffs of Cape Cod.  Where
did Rodney pick?

"I want to see the water slides," he said with no hesitation.

"Fair enough," I laughed.  I inched the mouse just a little further up
the highway.  I zoomed in on the 3D rendering of the Kalahari water
park and tilted the camera.  Rodney _ooh'ed_ like he was looking at
one of the seven wonders of the world.

Rodney stayed at the computer the rest of the morning.  After he
figured out how to move the globe and drag the little yellow street
view figure to a spot in the map, he had everything he needed to
entertain himself for another two hours.  Marissa and I drank coffee
at the table.  Rodney turned to get our attention while the camera was
spinning into a close-up of Siberia.  "Ope," said Rodney.  "It's
getting pretty cold in here!"

We also finally had the chance to try out some of the experiments from
Rodney's new favorite YouTube channel.  There was one where we cracked
pepper into a bowl of water, and apparently dipping your finger into
soap was supposed to repel the pepper when your finger broke the
surface.  We couldn't get that one to work, but the dry erase marker
on the dinner plate was a hit.  Rodney doodled some silly faces on a
dinner plate, and after slowly adding warm water on top, the figures
would float to the top in tact.  Marissa started to jiggle the plate
and make the characters dance.  Rodney was howling with laughter.

<figure>
<a href="/images/2021-01-30-experiment.jpg">
<img alt="2021 01 30 experiment" src="/images/2021-01-30-experiment.jpg"/>
</a>
</figure>

That's what I got today.  Thanks for stopping by, everyone.  Have a
good weekend.
