---
title: notes for today
---

Marissa had trouble sleeping.  Wearily recounted her night of puking,
nausea, and tossing in bed.  Rodney and I gave her the morning to
sleep it off on the couch, and the two of us headed outside.

We bounced between sports, and in between throwing a baseball, kicking
a soccerball, and tossing the football to each other, he insisted we
run over to his playhouse and spin the plastic steering wheel mounted
to the wall.

Rodney flung the plastic, and it whirred against the side of the
playhouse.  He nodded in approval.

"Oh I get it," I said.  "We're spinning the wheel to pick what we
play, like they do in the Dude Perfect sports battles."  Rodney
happily nodded.

Resumed trick shots all morning, then went inside for lunch.  Rodney
and I whipped up a batch of fried rice from Chinese leftovers in the
fridge, which is another good quarantine move.  Sliced crispy chicken,
a scrambled egg, a few scoops of kimchi, and a glug or two of sweet
soy sauce.  Oh, and of course a handful of Wisconsin cheddar cheese at
the very end.

---

Took the afternoon to assemble a pizza.  Marissa joined me in the
kitchen.  "Man I love the days where I can take the whole afternoon to
make this pizza and have everything ready."  Went on to explain that I
used our good tomatoes, a fresh ball of mozzarella, and homemade bread
crumbs from beer bread.  "This is probably going to be the best choni
ever."

Got Rodney out of his nap and hung out outside.  Throwing the football
around.  Finally ran inside to preheat the oven.  Poured the dough out
and stretched it.  Looking so photogenic.

Noticed the oven had been preheating for a while.  Opened the door,
and stuck my hand in.  Ice cold and drafty.  Clicked it off and on a
few times.  Heart sank realizing our oven might be broken.

"I think there's something wrong with our oven," grabbed Marissa.  We
both started googling.

Feeling quite out of my element, proceeded to take apart the oven.
Removed the grates, screws, bottom cover.  Clicked the oven on, and a
steady blue flame rolled over the long piece of metal, then suddenly
went out.

Did some more googling.  "I think we need to call somebody.  All the
results are turning up hobbyist message boards, like 'get out the
multimeter and check the consistency of the igniter'."

Meanwhile, looked longingly at my beautifully assembled pizza.
Started to wonder what we'd do for dinner.

"Do you want to just order?"

"Hang on, I think I have an idea."  Lit the charcoal grill and set it
aside.  "I think we can do it on the grill."

"Want to cut up the pizza into quarters and do it on the pizza stone?"
asked Marissa.

"That wouldn't be a bad idea, but the pizza is so gooey before it
bakes, it's basically a liquid."  Carried the pan over to the grill
and measured.  "OK, so it will fit.  I think we can just bake the
whole pan in the grill."

Covered the bottom of the pan with a few wads of tinfoil.  The
charcoals were hissing, dusted with white ash.  Added a few chunks of
wood along the side.  Set down the pan and closed the lid.

Peeked on the pizza twenty minutes later, Marissa peering over my
shoulder.  The pizza was golden brown, and the crust was puffing,
cheese started to show some bubbling.  Poked a piece of crust and
quickly put the lid back on.

"OK, so good news.  That's looking really good.  Let's give it ten
more minutes."

Removed the pizza, scraping it from the pan.  Some burnt pieces in the
middle, but the pizza looked amazing.  Had a dark brunt cheese aroma
around it, and smelled like the grill.

"Wow.  This was really good."

Tried my luck again with a loaf of bread that was set aside, but the
bottom burnt to a crisp.

---

Put Rodney to bed, sitting around the fire.  Marching around the yard
looking for sticks to burn.  Suddenly Marissa spoke up.

"Do you see how many worms are in our yard?"

"I saw a few.  Why?"

"Here get low and look."  Walked over to Marissa.  Hid the light of my
flashlight and put her pale phone screen to the ground.  Suddenly saw
a bustling worm population, briskly moving between little plugs in the
ground.

"Worms are a good thing, through, right?"

"But there are hundreds... thousands.  Oh my gosh I'm so grossed out.
Look at these things."

Sat down by the fire.  I opened my phone to do some googling.  "What
do we even search for."

"_I have a crap ton of worms in my yard_," narrated Marissa.

Found that they are indeed a good thing, but it can get to the point
where it's a problem, especially if they are tearing up your yard and
leaving a gummy layer of soil with too much nutrients.

"Oh here we go, treatments.  OK, sometimes for yards that are really
bad, you can electrify the ground.  That sounds interesting."

Marissa silently read on.  "Oh maybe not.  Look, it says the
electricity makes them all crawl to the surface at once, then you
scoop them up and throw them away.  Can you imagine?"  Marissa
mimicked an army of worms emerging from the ground spy wiggling her
fingers and flailing her arms.

"Oh I was picturing more of a spaghetti playdough maker, you know
where it just comes out in a stalk."  I mimed a stalk of worms with my
hands, slowly bending them at the ends as they got higher.  Marissa
shuddered.

The good news is it sounds like the best way forward is to just grow
over it with grass.
